import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-12-07",
  title: "Evening Pages: December 7th, 2020",
  description: "Evening Pages: December 7th, 2020",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), I've been
locking myself down until I think it's safe to go out again. To alleviate fear
and stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages"
get-together on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some
of my brief thoughts.

---

Don't you just wish they'd stay this way forever?

![pupper](/img/posts/2020/12/07/evening_pages_2.jpg)

Sigh. Only for a few weeks. It's okay though. They stay around forever (in our
hearts) :heart_eyes:

---

So this morning I bought into a small company called Luminar Technologies. It's
run by this guy who's younger and richer than I am (who is now a lot richer and
more liquid than I am, and the younger part makes me feel a bit old). This
company I've been following for a little while because I think they're a startup
making LIDAR devices (kind of like radar using light instead of radio waves). I
thought they were pretty small, because they were only started a few years ago.
Imagine my surprise when yesterday, I discovered that this company was publicly
listed and had been for a few days. I very quickly decided to buy in.

So the reason I decided to buy into this company is because (I think) it's one
of the pioneers of solid-state LIDAR. Historically, LIDAR has been some laser
beam that's mechanically actuated in order to paint a 3D point map of the
surroundings. This is hugely expensive, mechanically unreliable (or more prone
to breakage), and power hungry, making it infeasible for production usage.
Solid-state LIDAR is an ASIC, which gets you back on the path of Moore's Law.
And the thing about Moore's Law is, it's extremely profitable.

The other big reason I decided to buy into this company was because of its
obsession with cost and quality. It's targeting prices of less than $1,000 per
unit, and probably closer to $100 per unit. You know how Tesla keeps saying
LIDAR isn't necessary for autonomous driving, cameras are fine? No, they're
fucking not, because there's no seminal depth information from a camera, you
have to derive it, which takes additional software that can fail and get
somebody killed. You need LIDAR in order for many of these "autonomous car"
thingamabobbers to work properly, the cars aren't feasible without them. It
probably also makes this and the next generations of cruise control much safer
too. Lower cost means higher demand and hopefully the higher volume that results
in large amounts of thin margins, which creates a resilient sales funnel of
distributed customers and higher business safety.

Add to this the fact that the CEO retains a majority stake in his company (no
small feat, most founders are diluted down to a bare minority stake of something
like 10%), it creates data (and I loveeee data), blue ocean environment soon to
be winner-take-all environment like all tech does, yada yada yada I'm in here's
my money.

Results from today:

![stonks](/img/posts/2020/12/07/evening_pages.png)

I bought in at around 33 and some change, so let's say 34 (very early in the
morning). I got 125 shares. So I think today I made a bit more than $860 in
unrealized capital gains. Maybe $1000. I don't know.

This is where the stress starts again, because _the media_ (bless their fucking
hearts) start saying "BUYBUYBUYSELLSELLSELL" and you have no idea whether to
trust your own gut or whether to flap in the wind (pretty sure the answer is to
trust my own gut). I almost lost it this morning and so I locked my phone and my
keys in my Kitchen Safe so that I won't touch them. I wish there was a way for
me to just forget about this investment and just let it sit there, because the
more I follow news the more I get stressed out. Good incentive to meditate, I
guess.

Then I remember how I bought in for $ZM (Zoom) at $64, sold half at $120,
panicked because the stock went on the decline from $120 to $62 and sold there,
then watched from the sidelines mouth apage as the coronavirus pandemic + stock
market stimulus shot the stock up to $550 (which would have covered my
sabbatical a couple times over).

So now I'm thinking, _fuck the news_, I'm just going to keep holding and if
there's no way to lock my position in this specific stock I might change brokers
and migrate my account so that I don't have to look at this stock and how
successful and whatnot it's doing. I'll just keep AT&T. Which currently is
trending at -6% returns on my investment. I'm very happy with just looking at
this. Keeps me humble.

Also what the fuck is IPO via SPAC? Crazy kids and their new-fangled financial
instruments.
