import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-11-09",
  title: "Evening Pages: November 9th, 2020",
  description: "Evening Pages: November 9th, 2020",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

My life right now.

<VideoPlayer
  sources={[
    {
      src: "/video/general/covid.mp4",
      type: "video/mp4",
    },
  ]}
/>

---

You know the saying "the days are long, but the years are short"? When I think
about this year, and how the beginning of the year happened with the almost-war
with Iran, I think it's a bit less true. That feels like 10,000 years ago. It
feels like 100 years since this past Saturday. But then I think about it even
more, and the timeline flexes in my mind. Yeah, it does feel like it's
yesterday, even with all the horribleness crammed into one year.

I'm mostly thinking about myself and what I could have done differently over the
past few years. Being less of a dick would have helped some, but honestly I
don't think there was any way in order to avoid it. I think I made a pretty big
mistake in terms of investing. I thought the stock market would pretty much tank
like back in '09 because of Trump, and that's why I held back all my cash
reserves. I did not expect Jerome Powell firing off a literal money eruption
into the economy in order to at least save the stock market. Now I'm worried
more about hyperinflation or stagflation than I am about deflation, and as it
turns out keeping cash on the sidelines is a bad idea when that occurs. Cash is
trash, capital is king. Then there's the matter of making the most of my
sabbatical. My company was extremely generous in terms of respecting my time,
but I didn't respect my own time, and I kind of just lounged around for a few
months. I did not realize I was that lazy, or could be that lazy. It is nice to
learn how to relax, and I think that's important, but I think it'll be important
to continue to develop my own skills (albeit at a slower pace now that I'm
learning things at work).

It feels good to be able to spend money again. I look at something online (an
electric folding bike, for instance), and I can add it to my cart and look
forward to purchasing it sometime in the future. I don't think I would have been
able to do that just a few short months ago. I was scrimping and pinching on
buying grain staples. I think after talking to a friend, I should spend a bit
more money in order to feel happy. I shouldn't feel guilty about spending money
if I'm still in large part responsible.

I talked to my downstairs neighbor when going outside for a walk. He asked how I
was holding up these days. I replied that the sky was above me and the ground
was below me, so most like any other day. I forgot to ask him how he was holding
up. I should have asked, I forgot because music was playing in my ears.

Things are...different. Trump is [playing Jenga with the
DoD](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/trump-fires-defense-secretary-mark-esper/story?id=74111080),
but if we're still around in 2021, I think there will still be good things and
there will still be bad things. Pretty much like always, and it'll be up to us
to make the most of our own lives, just like always.
