import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2019-11-17",
  title: "Frustration Management",
  description: "Frustration Management",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

One of the most frustrating things I've ever had to deal with in life is losing
my data backups, most of the time because I've forgotten my password. I'm too
cheap in order to pay up for an iCloud subscription, and so far I've been too
cheap to pay up for a third-party cloud backup solution, so typically I back up
my iPhone to my MacBook Pro, and my MacBook Pro to an external drive. This is a
bad idea, especially because as a software engineer I already know about data
integrity/loss prevention best practices.

I've mentioned my usage of this productivity app called Productive before on
this site. I'm sure the staff building and maintaining this application are
doing the best they can, but despite their best efforts, the app kept crashing
for me this morning. I didn't really know what to do, so I deleted the app in
order to try and re-download, because iOS has this weird thing where the app
build with version downloaded fresh from the App Store differs in behavior from
an app installed previously and upgraded through patches (likely for backwards
compatibility reasons or such). Productive is extremely privacy-focused, and so
ties together user data and the app's existence locally, with only iCloud
backups available at all, and many buttons asking whether you wish to delete all
app data. One click and all my app data got deleted, around 6,500 habits and all
habit schemas and migrations.

Okay. So there's my iPhone backup on my laptop. Except that I forgot the
password, and after searching through the entire apartment, realized I didn't
write down the backup password anywhere, store it in my macOS keychain, or add
it to my password manager. Can't brute force it either, since I choose
relatively long strings for passwords (min 8 characters). Tried all common
passwords and they failed. So the backup didn't work. And if the password has
failed, then all backups are invalidated and useless.

Okay. So set a new password. Except you can't, unless you reset all user
settings in your iPhone, which clears out a bunch of configuration stuff
(including Apple Pay, Passcodes, Screen Time, etc.), in order to set a new
password for backups. So those are now gone too.

This isn't Productive's fault at all, by any means. It's mine, especially since
this has happened before. I had a bunch of photos stored in Google Photos. After
the identity theft incident last year, and random people trying to brute force
my Google account, I took down my original personal email and downloaded a dump
of my original Google account contents onto my local computer's hard drive.
Except that I didn't download everything, so a bunch of my spreadsheets, like
who I should stay in touch with, got lost. Then I had forgotten about the dump
and the fact it wasn't backed up anywhere, and factory reset my desktop in order
to get around some pesky NVIDIA driver settings. So I lost all my photos from
high school and college, to the letter. Memories, friends, good times, they all
just live in my mind now. So I guess I should hope I have a good long-term
memory.

---

This isn't a pity party for myself. I've already implemented certain processes
for myself, like the usage of a password manager in the first place with
automated password generation and 2FA/MFA support, and I should add on others,
such as using a NAS backup with Backblaze B2 or something. I'm also probably
going to quit Productive entirely, and switch to a platform that has native
multi-device support and data export like Remember The Milk or Todoist. But
getting over the feelings of loss and regret after the fact are hard, however
simple they may be.

I have learned some coping mechanisms for dealing with hard times:

- **Figure out the worst-case scenario, realize the worst case actually isn't
  so bad, and then apply layers of reason to work your way back to something
  more logical and less lossy**: Okay, I lost all my data over the past two or
  three years with one fell swoop. How much worse is it going to get? What can
  the world possibly do to hurt me more? Not much more? Yeah that sounds about
  right. I also have X, Y, and Z, so it's not actually the worst case
  scenario.

- **Positive self-talk and self-reinforcement**: This actually works. I
  couldn't really do this just a few short weeks ago, but some clouds have
  lifted and I realized that I am fortunate for a good deal. And when you can
  look forward and see the sunlight ahead, or look up at the clouds and make
  yourself believe that the sun exists somewhere, that surprisingly helps out
  quite a bit. Identity is quite tied with self-perception.

- **Keeping busy**: If you lose all your memories, then you shouldn't just
  stand there. Go out and make more happy memories, and start filling in the
  wiped drive with new backups (and your backups password checked into a
  password manager). Keeping busy helps keep the monsters at bay.

---

All this helps undergird the importance of moving forward, of setting
actionables and deliverables, and getting the future you want.
