---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Books
title: 'Book Review: "Hands-On Scala: Learn the Scala Language in a Practical, Project-Based Way", by Li Haoyi'
date: "2021-02-21T01:35:42-05:00"
draft: false
---

I think this is the first book, out of many, that my manager has purchased for
me! I got a few months ago, but only recently managed to finish reading it. It
took a longer time than I had anticipated because the need for Scala kind of
dropped off after a month or so. We had originally examined it for usage with
[Apache Beam](https://beam.apache.org/) via [Spotify's `scio` Scala
API](https://spotify.github.io/scio/), but then other priorities got in the way
(as they do). So I picked that stuff up and this stuff kind of languished. Now
I'm learning other stuff, and because my brain is very single-threaded I need to
work through this book and finish it before I'm comfortable starting another
book. So I decided to just power through it.

From the outset, you can really tell that Li Haoyi put in a lot of effort into
writing this book and making it great to learn from. There's a large number of
examples, all templated within GitHub, and linked within the book. If there's
errata, it can be easily updated in a newer version of the book without breaking
prior versions.

I really like the project-based learning, though I will say it takes a lot
longer to work through than just reading through the material. I'm honestly not
sure whether it's better. I think the primary way of getting things to stick in
my mind is by working through the question section at the end, and while with
projects there's a much fuller context in which to create problems, I didn't do
them...because I was lazy and wanted to finish the book and move on to other
stuff.

If I need to use Scala in the future, I might do a personal project in order to
help it stick better, because with a personal project you get both the
project-based method of learning, and the mind-wracking and unavoidable process
of banging your head against a problem before discovering what the right
solution is. In any case, this book is a wonderful reference, and I would
recommend it to anybody who wants to learn Scala.
