import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-02-01",
  title: "My iPhone Addition",
  description: "My iPhone Addition",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

I first got a phone when I left for college. It was a "dumb" phone that could
call and send / receive texts. Technically there were other apps too, but they
were too clunky to be useful. I remember I just texted garbage to my friends
because I couldn't be bothered to learn how to use the ten-digit keypad, and
hoped that they could mentally translate my gibberish into coherence.

At some point in time, I got an iPhone 5, and it was a pretty big change. I had
real "apps" that I could use. There was a "touch screen". I could use it for so
much more than just calling and texting.

That phone died when it got dunked into a hot tub. I remember shopping for
another phone after I finally realized after some number of repairs that I'll
just be ship of thesus-ing my phone, paying the same or higher amounts for a
phone that wasn't reliable. I wanted to downgrade to a "dumb" phone because I
knew I wouldn't not be able to use my phone all the time. My dad wanted me to
get an iPhone 7 because he wanted an iPhone 7 and the family plan was cheaper.

<br />

Yes. You read that right. The teenager / college guy _who's a Luddite_.

<br />

One thing led to another, and now I'm pretty addicted to my iPhone. It's bad.
According to the [Screen Time](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208982) feature
Apple helpfully releases in order to help you control certain compulsive
behaviors, Last week (Sunday, January 26th to Saturday, February 1st), I spent
an average of _6 hours and 12 minutes_ using my iPhone _every day_. That's in
addition to time I spent on my laptop. On the weekends, I can spend something
like 9 to 12 hours on my phone.

I'm infuriated that Apple has a "get out of jail free" option for Screen Time,
where you can continue to work around the limits you set for yourself, and use
up additional reserves of willpower. I'm infuriated that I need to stay in touch
with the rest of the world to remain a functioning member of society. Most of
all, I'm disappointed that I can't control my own impulses.

A few days ago I said enough is enough, and I started looking for electronic
safes where I can lock my phone up for a certain amount of time with no
recourse. Some of these electronic safes were traditional "I'm afraid of a
robber" or "I'm afraid of a fire" safes and their price points reflected that.
They also had manual emergency keys available to be unlocked which I would have
to get rid of somehow.

Then I found this product called ["The Kitchen
Safe"](https://www.thekitchensafe.com/). It's a stout plastic box with a timer
and an electronic locking mechanism with no recourse, for $60. Wowza! I went
ahead and purchased one.

---

The first time I used it was today. I locked my phone up for 12 hours.

I _felt_ that withdrawal syndrome. I couldn't do anything, especially after I
activated all the blockers on my laptop and couldn't access anything fun. I
pretty much just stayed in bed all day being miserable.

I think at that point, I knew I was doing something right. I should be able to
survive without my phone. It's ridiculous to think that I couldn't.

Then I realized I had a commitment at 6PM. My phone was locked up until 10:30PM.

---

Okay, so.

No phone. Won't smash container for this commitment.

Call a Lyft or an Uber? No webapp available.

Call friend? Haven't signed into group chat on my laptop, and when I tried, it
requested my phone number to send a confirmation.

Call a taxi? No phone.

Welp.

I got out my notepad and pen, and drew the map from my house to my friend's
house. Then I walked one and a half hours to my friend's house in order to play
board games. It was raining and my notepad got wet, and I crossed out any PII,
but here it is:

[map](/img/posts/2020/02/01/my_phone_addiction_1.jpg)

Yeah, it rained so my notepad got wet and rumply. Also apparently Home Depot
only takes CFLs and DeWalt-style integrated batteries for e-recycling, so I
still need to recycle my e-waste.

---

I think I'll continue to use my Kitchen Safe. I really like how the withdrawal
syndrome proved to me that I had a problem. Next time though, I might set it for
6 hours at a time, so that way I can get my phone out if I need it later in the
day.
