import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2019-01-28",
  title: "Reverting MacBook Pro End-Of-Life",
  description: "Reverting MacBook Pro End-Of-Life",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

Remember when I was like [I need a new
computer](/posts/2019/01/10/macbook_end_of_life)? I got a new computer. And
after a week, got so sick of it I returned it today.

I got a completely specced-out Dell Precision 5530. It had all the bells and
whistles:

- CPU: i9-8950HK
- OS: Ubuntu Linux 18.04 (modified Dell OEM version)
- GPU: NVIDIA Quadro P2000 w/ 4GB GDDR5
- Memory: 32GB DDR4-2666MHz
- Disk: 256GB NVMe PCIe Class 40 SSD + Additional 2TB HDD

All in this gorgeous package:

[nice](/img/posts/2019/01/28/revert_macbook_end_of_life_3.jpg)

AMAZING, right?

Kind of. But in the end, not enough.

---

So I purchased this computer after a great deal of hesitation. The price was the
primary consideration for me, and the lack of "actual" failures in my current
hardware also gave me pause. I wasn't using what I already had badly. I had to
uninstall my NVIDIA drivers in my desktop due to a faulty apt upgrade and my GUI
went into a login loop that didn't stop until I uninstalled said drivers in
recovery mode and reverted to [nouveau](https://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/).

So I'm thinking, _"I have all this stuff and it isn't enough? Why am I
purchasing this?"_

Then the Dell Small Business discount dropped off by 5% and I begged the Dell
customer representative if he could restore the discount. He did and I purchased
it.

I felt absolutely nothing purchasing that computer. It was a world away from how
I felt about my current MacBook Pro, where I was super excited to get it. This
new laptop? It's just a tool. And can a tool replace a baby? So I remained
emotionally indifferent. I knew this was bad; I generally feel pretty good about
purchasing long-lasting items that are not books, because of just how rarely I
do so.

It came. It was in a shitty cardboard box. Okay. I took a Lyft back to my
apartment to make sure it remained safe. The driver commented how I was one of
the few people switching away from macOS to Linux; I replied that I used Linux
at home and at work and I might as well use it when I'm mobile too.

I opened it up. The inside box was very fancy.

[fancy](/img/posts/2019/01/28/revert_macbook_end_of_life_4.jpg)

I set up
[papirus-icon-theme](https://github.com/PapirusDevelopmentTeam/papirus-icon-theme)
and [adapta-gtk-theme](https://github.com/adapta-project/adapta-gtk-theme), and
a [solarized dark Python
wallpaper](https://linux.pictures/content/1-projects/200-solarized-dark-wallpaper/solarized-wallpaper-python.png).
Ubuntu 18.04 is nice like that; all GNOME, no wierd Unity/GNOME combination. And
the nice thing about GNOME is that you can install packages straight from the
GNOME package archive to your computer via [Google Chrome
extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/gnome-shell-integration/gphhapmejobijbbhgpjhcjognlahblep?hl=en)
and [gnome-chrome-shell](https://github.com/GNOME/chrome-gnome-shell). This
meant I could use the [Dash to Dock
extension](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/307/dash-to-dock/), and with
that Linux resembled macOS but in a _way_ better way.

[ooh2](/img/posts/2019/01/28/revert_macbook_end_of_life_2.jpg)

Build quality is good. No flex in the screen, hinges are good. No one-finger
lift of the screen, and the screen overhanging the computer means that when
placed in a laptop stand, the laptop needs to be lifted out of the stand before
the screen can be lifted. These are fairly small complaints, though.

One of the biggest issues was the NVDIA driver registration, and how the driver
was restored during resetting of the OS to Dell factory defaults. It wasn't
restored, it was lost.

[ooh](/img/posts/2019/01/28/revert_macbook_end_of_life_1.jpg)

See how the Graphics are Intel integrated graphics instead of the NVIDIA
graphics card? Yeah, I thought it was wierd too. So I ran `sudo lscpi | grep
NVIDIA` and nothing showed up. I ran `sudo lshw | grep NVIDIA` and it did.

Dude. Uncool. That was one of the primary reasons why I installed the NVIDIA
drivers -- to compile/run CUDA files offline.

Also, my MacBook Pro must have a ghost in it or something, because it got faster
the more I used it. I don't think it's slow, the upgrades I made to it keep it
fairly fast, and I can't install macOS Mojave due to me RAIDing my SSDs anyways
so I don't have to worry about upgraded OSes taking up more system resources.

I also still dream of dynamic DNS over OpenVPN and securely accessing my desktop
from my laptop. If I had that, I probably could use the time I'm not on network
doing other things that are CPU-specific -- like everything that doesn't need a
GPU. So really having a GPU in a laptop is kind of pointless (and not to mention
expensive and underpowered).

I'm also a little terrified of the posts on Dell forums from people screaming
about coil whine (apparently addressed in the newer machines), and of other
build quality issues for the XPS line (which shares a QC line with the Precision
apparently). Apple's quality has gone down significantly since I purchased my
laptop, but nobody else has been able to match the quality at Apple's peak. Even
my work laptop, the [System76 Oryx Pro](https://system76.com/laptops/oryx),
suffers from stupid issues like the monitor going into a panic mode when
unplugging from a Dell monitor. And that one costs $3500, so it's not like
paying more or out the nose will result in a better experience.

TL;DR the new laptop is just not relevant to me. It also sucks more than my
current computer.

---

When I returned it, I was afraid of spilling coffee or something on my old
computer immediately afterwards and ruining it. I guess my brain just doesn't
like me. Even so, I don't think I will miss the new laptop. The next laptop I
get probably will be a Linux laptop, and high-quality too, but probably a lot
smaller and cheaper; only a client to my desktop. Something like the base model
XPS 13 Developer Edition which retails for $740, or a MacBook Air on Apple or
eBay or something (hey, maybe USB-C will actually be a thing, and dongles will
not be). Ideally I will become good enough at Linux and lightweight distros to
get something like an [IBM ThinkPad
T20](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_ThinkPad_T20_series), which in part of my
mind is what _real_ software engineers use (like Linus Torvalds, who apparently
compiles Linux on a 2GB notebook).

I'm terrified that the golden age of laptops has already ended, and with Apple's
current design decisions, that we the customers will never have great laptops
again. This is of course an absurd fear; somebody has to be able to create good
laptops, right?

Right?

Guys?
