import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";
import { VideoPlayer } from "@libs/videos/components/video-player";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-08-10",
  title: "Morning Pages: August 10th, 2020",
  description: "Morning Pages: August 10th, 2020",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), I've been
locking myself down until I think it's safe to go out again. To alleviate fear
and stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages"
get-together on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some
of my brief thoughts.

---

Kitties and tops!

<VideoPlayer
  sources={[
    {
      src: "/video/posts/2020/08/10/morning_pages.mp4",
      type: "video/mp4",
    },
  ]}
/>

---

So yesterday, I think I watched more than an entire season of "Parks and Rec",
Season 3 and part of season 4. It's pretty wild because I think most people do
this during their teenage years, and not when they're adults. I'm not sure
whether I'm angry that I wasted my weekend, I'm afraid that I'm developing an
addiction to TV, or I'm proud I'm developing an addiction to TV and I'm less of
a book fanatic.

I think [the news that a President, any President, is cutting "entitlement"
spending via executive
order](https://boston.cbslocal.com/2020/08/08/coronavirus-donald-trump-executive-order-ayanna-pressley-elizabeth-warren/)
is making me reconsider staying in this country. It's generally a lot easier to
destroy things than to build them, and I don't think we'll get back to where we
were as a country 5 years ago in my lifetime. I could stay here and play the
game of "what suffering will the next Republican president bring?" but I don't
think there's any point in being a hero. If I do stay here, it'll probably be
somewhere I can run away from easily, like to the mountains or across the border
or something.

So, I'm taking a look at where good places to live around the world are. U.S.
West Coast is less shiny to me now, not just because of the quality of living,
but also because of questionable access to fresh water (from a Great Lakes guy)
and how far away it is from other population centers. Chicago / Minnesota seem
pretty nice, but if you needed to run across the border where exactly would you
be running to? So that leaves New England + Quebec and the Canadian Eastern
Provinces (like New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, etc.). The problem is I find it
extremely doubtful Canada could resist a full-scale U.S. invasion in any
meaningful capacity, and living in an occupied territory would be about as fun
as living in Iraq or Afghanistan. I wonder if the U.S. would come apart at the
seams before that happened, and whether New England would resist. I don't know
how other parts of the world look to me. Europe looks vulnerable to Russian
invasion without U.S. intervention, it's too dense to have large areas survive a
nuclear attack, and it's more ethnic unions rather than political unions. Asia
might have many of the same problems with China, on top of the fact that I
probably don't fit into the Eastern ethos and the underlying authoritarianism.

Maybe I'm overthinking this. D.C. is still pretty nice, and if the country stops
being a democracy in the near future the new order will still need a capital to
rule its subjects from. And this is my home, and thinking about running from my
problems in anathema to every fiber in my being. Why should I have to run from
what somebody else did? When could I ever stop running? It's just that 80-odd
years ago some Jews in Germany thought the same thing, and they got turned into
ashes for their beliefs, and I don't think I could do that to my parents (take
their sacrifices and place them at the altar of naivete by staying here and
sticking my head in the sand).
