---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Television
title: 'TV Show Review: "Parks and Recreation", by Greg Daniels, Michael Schur et. al'
date: "2020-08-21T00:56:37-04:00"
draft: false
---

After ["The Office"](/posts/2020/07/26/the_office), I thought I'd never find
another TV show that would be as good. So I looked at a bunch of different
listicles online about TV shows that were like "The Office", and they
recommended "Parks and Rec" as the next show to binge watch.

It started off like a copy of "The Office", with Leslie Knope being a Michael
Scott like character. But I think the writers and the cast discovered a
different dynamic after Season 1, and it slowly became its own thing. Michael
Scott would likely never be the CEO of a Fortune 500 company, but Leslie Knope
does (spoiler alert) become governor of Indiana. The humor is softer (you're not
really laughing at anybody by the end of "Parks and Rec", and there's no spoiler
Andy Bernard character), and the cast dynamics are much more genuine (I've read
that the characters are just exaggerated versions of each cast member, vs. "The
Office" where Steve Carrell at least can assume multiple different personas).

It all tied together really well. By the end I wasn't really crying that it was
over, I felt a call to action, and I think "The Office" for the public sector
would have that kind of ring to it. It's inspiring in a way 'The Office" can
never be, because the even the droniest of civil servants still serve others.

I think I'm really happy knowing I'm not stuck watching "The Office" re-runs
forever. Now I'm really curious about the writers, because "The Office" and
"Parks and Rec" are both written by many of the same people (Greg Daniels and
Michael Schur), and they've written other TV shows as well, like "Brooklyn
Nine-Nine".
