---
authors: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "I went skydiving"
date: "2018-08-26T10:21:48-04:00"
draft: false
---

and it was an amazing experience.

![freefall](/img/posts/2018/08/26/freefall.JPG)

**Author's Note: This is a first draft and may be subject to change.**

This trip started after the identity theft crisis. I don't know whether it's
because my credit card company offered a promotion (spend \$2000 in three months
and get \$200 cash back), whether it's because I became more fatalistic about my
finances (I could lose all my money tomorrow from another attack), or whether
it's because I was saving without purpose and becoming bored to the general,
monotonous routine of life, but I decided to go do something outside my usual
financial limits. Why not skydiving?

It was also an opportunity to try and conquer my fears. When I was a kid, I was
terrified of heights. I tried getting over it by climbing super-tall buildings
like the CN tower, the Sears Tower, and the old World Trade Center, but it
didn't really seem of help all that much. Funnily enough, living on the second
floor of my parent's house when I was a teenager and having to stare out over
the loft before coming down the stairs helped, as did rock climbing and hiking.
My fears were pretty much gone by yesterday, but I thought skydiving would help
with confirming that it was gone for good.

I asked people whether they would consider skydiving, and aside from one friend
who wanted to go independently, my offer was met with universal denial. Why not
go indoor skydiving? It's crazy to jump out of a plane! I figured that it was
their ["System 1"](/posts/2018/08/19/thinking_fast_and_slow) that was talking
and not them, because statistically, tandem jumping is an extremely safe
activity. In fact, I didn't want to do indoor skydiving because an impact with
the floor or the wall could be just as devastating as an impact with the ground
in outdoor skydiving, if not more so because you have an instructor while tandem
jumping who can help correct for you.

I scheduled a skydiving session at [Skydive
Orange](http://www.skydiveorange.com/) the weekend before my 24th birthday. I
thought that was a good enough reason to do something. Since it was 2 hours
away, and I didn't know what my schedule would be like after going there, I
decided to book a rental car from Enterprise too.

---

# My Day

I wake up around 9:30AM and decide to do a few chores before I pick up the car.
I do some laundry, eat breakfast, and wash the dishes. I wasn't in a rush
because I thought since my car reservation was at 9:00AM and for the full day, I
didn't get any messages or underlined warnings to pick up the car at the time
specified, and because I scouted out the office and talked to the staff the day
before, I could go whenever I want.

I was wrong. Around 10:45AM or so I eventually make it over to the rental car
store, where Nick at the front desk says that not only did I lose my reservation
because I came over an hour and a half late and they didn't have a car waiting
for me, they were swamped with customers and they didn't have _any_ car for me.
It was okay, though. After another hour or so, and after a great deal of extra
effort on the part of Enterprise's staff, they got a bunch of cars from another
branch and I made my way to the garage. I found myself staring at a Hyundai
Tucson. I thought I was getting a Toyota Camry, but the details of the
reservation said "Toyota Camry, or similar". I guess a compact SUV is kind of
like a full-size sedan. It was a bit stressful waiting, but I was just glad to
get a car in the end. After pre-paying for gas and getting some insurance, I got
the keys and was on my way.

Since it was 12:00PM and my skydiving reservation was for 2:00PM, and the drive
took around 2 hours, I had pretty much no time for lunch. I packed some bananas,
some bread, and five water bottles and took off for Orange, VA. I worried that I
would be a horrible driver, or that somebody would drive into me, but highway
driving during the day was extremely chill and driving is now a muscle memory
for me. Driving in the suburbs, and then in the countryside, is an extremely
pleasant experience, especially when you havent' seen farmland in more than a
year. Hello cows! Hello horses! Hello barn! I felt like a kid again.

I get over the last hill, and then I see the wide expanse of Orange Airport.
It's a small airport with one primary landing strip and a number of smaller
planes. I look above me and I see maybe five or six canopies slowly floating
down towards the dropzone. That in itself was amazing. I don't think I've seen
parachuters in real life before.

I asked for directions from a nice lady and I walked into the hangar. It was
_packed_. There had to have been at several hundred skydivers there. There was a
Twin Otter, a larger cargo plane of some sort, and a helicopter, just non-stop
ferrying people to the air and coming back down. I discovered that the [Big O
Boogie 2018](http://www.skydiveorange.com/event/big-o-boogie-2/) was going on,
so there was an abnormal amount of activity.

I went to the registration site, and had to fill out some paperwork and watch a
video. I thought the video would cover safety tips, but it was just a legal
liability video stating the extreme dangers of skydiving. The paperwork was
intense; there was a clause stating that if you died, your heirs and executors
could not sue Skydive Orange for any reason. I read every line and listened to
every word. I asked the front desk if anybody ever died at Skydive Orange. They
said "nope". That was good.

After filling out the paperwork, I was told that my name would be called on the
intercom when it was my turn to jump. Great, time for a snack! I ate some bread
and bananas and got some water. Then I waited. And waited. And waited some more.
It took about 3 hours until I was my turn to jump.

I took this opportunity to look around me at what people were doing and what was
happening. It's very comforting to see the planes coming and going. It's a
routine, everybody's chill and knows what to do, and everything works. Some of
the folks there got they skydiving licenses right when they turned 18. Some got
it in their mid-fifties. All of them loved skydiving, to the point where they
flew their own private plane from Buffalo, New York to Orange just for the Big O
Boogie event ("less hassle than flying commercial"). I was in a different world.

Eventually, my turn came up. I was jumping with a couple doing tandems, an older
Latino guy, and some more experienced jumpers (some had wingsuits, some didn't).
My tandem instructor was Dan, a military test parachutist turned diplomat. He
cuts away his parachute mid-air in order to test things for scientists and
stuff. I felt safe. Since I got the videos and photos package too, another
jumper, Mario, brought along two GoPros on his helmet to film me: one for
photos, one for videos.

Before we harnessed up, we got to choose whether we wanted to go as we were,
wear a full flight suit, or wear motorcycle pants, with the understanding that
there may be grass stains. I wore my Kinetica t-shirt and wanted to rep it in
the air, and I didn't want to leave grass stains on the rental car, so I chose
motorcycle pants.

I asked Dan what kinds of injuries people got (there were quite a lot of people
walking around with injuries). Dan said since it was mostly competitive
skydiving, people do stupid tricks and sometimes twist their ankles or
something, but nothing major.

---

# The Jump

The plane I was jumping out of was a Twin Otter. Since it was pretty late in the
day, I believe I was on the last or second-last group ("Otter 19").

I noticed while circling around the back of the plane that there was a large
rectangular door in the side of the plane. Dan confirmed that the Otter was
specially configured for skydiving. The inside of the plane was a bit ratty, but
I didn't care. No plane ever fell out of the sky because the carpet was mussed
up or the lining was peeling, and I trust that Skydive Orange trusted the
plane's maintainers.

There's two gray carpet benches along the inside of the plane, as well as some
empty space. The door remaining open while we were taxiing, and I asked Dan
whether there _was_ a door. Sure enough, there was, made out of plexiglas, and
the skydivers pulled it down right before we took off.

Taking off is very much like taking off in a commercial jet. Except you only
kind of have a seatbelt. And you're looking at a gigantic hole in the side of
the plane knowing you're going to jump. So it's also nothing like flying
commercial. The houses get smaller, and smaller, and smaller, and then you
start paying attention to the warehouses when you can't see the houses any more,
and then they get smaller and smaller and smaller. Pretty soon you're focusing
on chunks of farmland.

There were puffs of cloud around and I asked Dan whether he preferred diving
with clouds or without clouds. He said it depends on whether you want to see the
furthest, in which case no clouds is best, or whether you want to dive through
the clouds and experience the _whoosh_. Clouds look different when you are
flying through it, as they all blend together into one layer. That we flew over.

I checked my altimeter. 5,000 feet. 10,000 feet. 14,000 feet. I had the analog
one, and like a clock, it turned around once and settled on 2.

At 14,000 feet, the plane leveled off, and the other skydivers opened the
plexiglas door. The wind, oh god the wind. It was insane. You could kind of hear
what was going on, but most of the pro skydivers ahead of me just stuck their
tongues out, made a hand gesture of some sort, and jumped out.

I was gauging my fear the entire ride up. Right when I stumped over to the door,
feet between Dan's feet, I did a mental check. I asked somebody out last week.
She said no. This was **_much_** less stressful.

Maybe I got over my fear. Maybe I don't care for my own life anymore. Maybe
since I was strapped in I was thinking that if anything happened at this
altitude, Dan would know what to do and it would honestly be more dangerous to
stump back to the bench because there were still skydivers behind us and it
would be unexpected behavior. But jumping out the plane was absolutely not the
hardest thing I've done in my life. That might be telling friends I had
depression, or doing my lead climb certification and falling 80 feet from a rock
ledge.

That was the jump. Then came turning around and seeing the plane leave me. "_Oh
God the plane is leaving_". Then I remembered my training and arched my hips
back and dug my feet into Dan's ass, as he said. Kind of, I didn't do it very
well. My senses were overwhelmed, you had air rushing past your head and through
your ears, your brain is firing signals to tell you how stupid a person you are
right before you die, and you can kind of see things through your goggles
because the air is also dicking around with your face. It was total System 1 at
that point.

I noticed Mario was filming me. I was trying to smile and grin for the camera
but my mouth kept running dry.

The freefall lasted about sixty seconds. Then the parachute opened, and I went
from horizontal to vertical, just like that. The harness felt nice and tight,
and maybe for the first time I took a great look around.

It was beautiful. Blue Ridge mountains in the distance, farmland, and the
airport right below us. You couldn't get that view in a glider or from a
skyscraper. You could only get it jumping out of an airplane.

I asked Dan to do a spin. I pulled both my arms up and pulled down on the side I
wanted to spin towards. I pulled down on my left. **_OH MY GOD THAT WAS
TERRIFYING_**. The most terrifying part of the entire trip. It was like if you
were skiing down one of those dual black diamond slopes, but even steeper. My
stomach came into my mouth.

Then nothing happened. And we did it again. And this time, I opened my eyes and
cheered. There was nothing to worry about!

We did another few spins in order to establish a pattern for landing in the
dropzone, and as instructed I pulled up my legs as high as I could go. I stuck
my legs out, which wasn't supposed to happen, but the landing went extremely
smoothly.

![woohoo](/img/posts/2018/08/26/woohoo.JPG)

I stood up and my legs were shaking. I think my brain hates me just a little
bit. But I ended up walking back to the hangar just fine, where I got my
certificate saying I'm a qualified jumper ("one of us"), a nice bumper sticker,
and a $90 coupon for when I wanted to jump again.

After the jump, I bought a $7 burger and a $2 water from a food truck called
Blackwater Beef. They stayed open late because of all the late jumpers and the
guy messed up my payment, but he fixed it and offered my chips. I declined and
offered to tip as appreciation for staying open (I have no idea where the
nearest food joint would be). The guy stared at me for five seconds and said no.
Maybe I become nicer after having an adrenaline-fuelled experience. Maybe it's
just me. The burger was nice.

I drove home and got back around 9, whereupon I promptly ate the rest of my
bananas and bread, filed away habits in my habit app, and went to bed.

---

All in all, the experience was amazing. If I had to do it again, I think I would
tweak some things about my adventure:

- Remember to pick up my rental car on time. Otherwise not only will I have it
  late, but I might have to wait even longer.

- Close my mouth while falling at terminal velocity. The air sucks all the
  saliva out of your mouth and my mouth became extremely dry. I ate a bunch of
  bananas afterwards because I was afraid of getting a sore throat. I bet drops
  of my spit are still floating over the airport, or became part of the clouds.

- Correct my posture after jumping out of the plane, such as letting go of the
  harness with my hands and arching my back more. Dan mentioned this during the
  briefing on the ground and on the ride up, and I think Mario gestured to me
  about it while we were in freefall, but due to sensory overload and a bit of
  sheer terror I forgot about it. Opening my arms would be important if I did an
  accelerated free-fall (AFF) since that would be how I balance. That meant the
  camera didn't get my shirt in the air as well. I could also open my eyes more;
  they were open, but due to the air and being Asian it looks closed on the
  pictures.

- Bring a friend (if I can convince anybody to come)! It's much more fun jumping
  together because you get to talk about the experience afterwards (or really,
  you can't stop talking). Tandem jumping is not dangerous and it's not scary.
  It's also a great way to cheat your FitBit (I think I got at least a thousand
  steps on the way down) :smile:

I don't know if I would jump again, since it is kind of expensive, and some of
the experienced jumpers did say it becomes routine after a while and you're
jumping to get the next certification (can you imagine jumping out of a plane as
routine?), but it was an experience of a lifetime, and I have a new answer to my
remaining fears: I'll conquer them by just doing it.
