import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-07-13",
  title: "Evening Pages: July 13th, 2020",
  description: "Evening Pages: July 13th, 2020",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), I've been
locking myself down until I think it's safe to go out again. To alleviate fear
and stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages"
get-together on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some
of my brief thoughts.

---

Man, it's been a while since I've written here. Hence I'm trying to find the
cutest animal picture / video from this week, instead of just from today.

And here you go!

<VideoPlayer
  sources={[
    {
      src: "/video/posts/2020/07/13/evening_pages.mp4",
      type: "video/mp4",
    },
  ]}
/>

I wonder whether cat toys are made not because cats enjoy it, but because people
do. That has to be why, I don't think I've seen a cat enjoy a cat toy more than
a human.

---

I'm pretty frustrated with myself. I think I say this usually, but today and
recently I've been feeling the heat much more. My sabbatical kind of went off
the rails, and I'm not sure what to do about it. So my day project for my
sabbatical turned from working on a CRM for software engineers, to working on a
data layer for event-driven clients, to a Firebase-like framework for BI +
personal life management tools, to a database-backed spreadsheet tool (that I
never really got started on...), to a consulting agency thing that hasn't gotten
off the ground yet, to building out a demo SaaS that I'm having trouble with
because I can't get a friggin' side menu bar to collapse properly.

The kicker? _I haven't shipped any of these_. Besides throwing up a landing
page, an email address, sending out some cold emails (that haven't gotten
returned), and maybe doing some amount of development (plus a _lot_ of devops),
I don't have too much to show in production since...late January.

![awkward](/img/posts/2020/07/13/evening_pages_2.jpg)

---

I don't think this just happened. I think one goal of mine was almost this exact
situation, to exhaust myself against the impossibility of doing everything
myself so that I can come back into the workforce a bit more humbled. But now
that I'm applying to jobs again, this "victory" (if you can even call it that)
rings very, very, very hollow. I think what I really wanted was freedom. Freedom
to do what I wanted, on my own terms, and that's not really a freedom you get to
enjoy frequently unless you have financial freedom, which in our world comes
from (smartly) doing things other people want in a way that most benefits you.
Like building a company and answering to customer's needs.

If I had to do my sabbatical over again...what would I do differently...? For
starters, I think I'd be a bit more liberal on spending money on Heroku.
Seriously, not having to worry about devops is the best thing ever. Ship a demo,
get money in the bank from pre-orders or sales or what-not, then iterate on
customer demands because not even I know what I want for myself (I really have
only inklings of ideas, and I don't dream full project specifications). I think
after I had realized what a travesty AWS Elastic Beanstalk really was, and the
horror of what it's like to configure everything from scratch, I should have
pivoted instead of going neck deep into AWS.

I'm not sure if I've mentioned this, but I realized maybe two days ago that AWS
does not allow ECS containers to talk to the public internet, unless they're on
a private subnet with a NAT gateway. A lot of technical gobbledygook, and what
it means is that you're looking to spend about $50 / mo. on AWS if you want to
"do things right" (follow generalized devops best practices). Which is far out
of budget for me. Whereas Heroku would cost $15 / mo. and have services up and
ready to go. _Heroku is price-competitive with AWS_, in fact Heroku is priced
even better than AWS, for Internet-facing services. I don't think I could have
believed that statement just a few months ago. The vendor lock-in isn't real, if
you have a container. How can it not be real??

If you have a public API, and you can't use CORS in order to limit who can ping
your API, you'll have random pings from random crawlers just trying different
things. And who knows, maybe one day they'll get through to the admin page and
hold your data ransom. So you need something like AWS Web Application Firewall,
which charges $5 / mo. for _one_ web ACL rule. When I see what the true cost of
hosting is like, it makes the value proposition for a managed service much, much
more attractive.

I think I also need to stop being afraid of letting myself write bad code. This
is a fear I haven't overcome yet, and maybe it's because I just haven't written
enough code in general. It's a Catch-22. I'd rather not write any code at all
than write bad code, but writing good code means writing a lot of bad code
first. So yeah, I have to write a small quantity of "good" code (the definition
of which changes every so often), only after doing compulsive research on what
good and bad is.

---

I think it's dangerous to get into a spiral of negative thinking, so what are
some good things that came out of this sabbatical? Hmmm...

I learned many things the hard way. I learn things best the hard way, because
while the higher-order mind forgets things (I think `stack ghci` is one of the
few commands I remember from earlier this year), the simian mind does not (that
`awsvpc` meltdown will stay with me long after I forget most everything
else...). So I guess in a sense I've learned where to assign my priorities in
developing side projects, and I can see much further on the horizon (e.g.
scaling a product and what that will entail) than I could before. So that's
good.

I think it's also nice learning a good deal of DevOps. I think DevOps is
recession-resistant in a way other software engineering disciplines might not
be. So I can always pivot to that in case, you know, next job doesn't work out
or something. And since I made sure to learn everything from the base layer up,
it works for pretty much any cloud. ACLs, routing tables, and DNS records exist
everywhere. It's also great because since I can control my pipeline to
production, I'm not so scared of the big bad vendor lock-in anymore. Come to
think of it, I'm not sure what I'm really afraid of. Probably security-related
issues, where if I do something wrong not only is it a silent failure but I can
get hurt really, really bad. I guess it's nice to learn infrastructure-as-code
stuff, I can deploy a landing page in less than a day now without being locked
into a proprietary vendor of some sort, and then only need to worry about SEO.

What else is nice. It's cool learning things people need. I'm much less
terrified about finding a job this time around than I was previously. Mostly
because I've kind of stopped giving a shit about finding the "best" job, but
also because I know I can kind of stand my ground on some things. I've gone out,
I've made a _little_ money on my own doing some contracting, and you know what?
I have a base level of self-worth, because I'm fundamentally sick of being
stepped on. So I'm going to ask for what I want, and I'll allow myself to want
what I want (and I don't even want all that much). I think I have a leg to stand
on for that kind of assertion.

Sigh. It's not the suffering Olympics, because if it is I wouldn't win, and so I
think things are a bit hard at the moment, even for a privileged guy like me.
It's difficult to plan for the future, and even more difficult when you know
just how hard things are going to be. I wish my sabbatical aimed more squarely
at that point, because now keeping those thoughts at bay keeps me up at night.
