---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "Marcus by Goldman Sachs..."
date: "2021-02-24T18:19:09-05:00"
draft: false
---

So recently I had to pay down an [earnest money
deposit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earnest_payment) for the titling agency
in order to check that I'm serious about purchasing a property. It was a pretty
sum, and I didn't mind it because it's going into my down payment.

I would have wanted an ACH transfer, but those take a few days, and the titling
agency wasn't open on the weekend, and I only got 5 days between starting the
title and needing to settle the EMD. So wire transfer it is. The wire transfer
fee is some amount of money, like a DoorDash burrito, but looks small next to
the EMD.

So most of my money, as of a few days ago, was located in my [Marcus by Goldman
Sachs](https://www.marcus.com/us/en) bank account. I call up this bank, this
customer service representative responds, says the wire transfer is $30, and
that the transaction should take some amount of money to settle. Okay, whatever.
I approve the transfer and then go out my day.

The next day (today), a Marcus CSR (maybe even the same rep I got yesterday)
called me up and said the other bank was on the line too, and they needed to do
a conference call. I'm pretty confused. They want me to confirm that the
external account is not held in my name. I'm like yes, I'm paying somebody else,
why would it be in my name? The other bank hangs up, and the Marcus rep says
that I can only wire money to an external account with my name on it.

![wtf](/img/posts/2021/02/24/wtf.gif)

The whole point of a wire is that it's a `sudo` operation. You grant relaxed
permissions on a per-case basis and your money can go anywhere in the whole wide
world as long as you're not storming the Capitol or flying a Boeing 757 into
somebody's face.

I ask the rep if I still have to pay the wire transfer fee if the wire didn't go
through. She says I don't know.

![wtf](/img/posts/2021/02/24/wtf.gif)

You don't know?? I might still be on the hook for a wire transfer fee if the
wire doesn't go through?!

So now I'm raging because the only other bank account I have is Schwab, and I
don't know if I have the funds in order to make the transfer. This is like some
communist dystopian capital control bullshit going on here. I can't access my
money when I need it, resulting in me being on the hook for $10,000 in closing
costs and being released (forcibly ejected) from my contract.

The rep hangs up and I call the titling agency. I realize that Marcus doesn't
have an e-check system, nor did they mail out physical checkbooks. I'm wondering
whether I should Lyft over to the titling agency office in order to coordnate
what I'm going to do there, or ask my parents to step in.

Then I'm like wait...how much are the funds again? I check Schwab and OH MY
HEAVENLY GOD I have the funds by the skin of my teeth.

I call Schwab and the rep there is super nice and friendly, no real automated
process to go through. I ask them hurriedly if I can make the wire transfer. He
says yes but due to regulations it can only be done if the funds are transferred
to a brokerage account.

I start panicking again until I realize that transfers within Schwab accounts
(even checking/saving to brokerage) are real easy. I make the transfer and see
it immediately. He says is it okay to pay a $15 wire transfer fee? We managed to
get it down from $25. I'm like wtf of course. So the wire goes through. A few
hours later the funds are out of my account, and I get a receipt that the EMD is
filled by the title agency.

Whew.

Now Imma whoop some ass.

---

Just kidding, I'm not much of an ass-whooper. I'm just going to withdraw all my
funds and cut ties with Marcus completely. In any case, I started off with
Marcus with a 1.50% APY, and it's slowly declined to 0.50% or something like
that, so it slowly made less and less sense. It was like my Schwab account,
except with less services anyways.

I take every penny out of the account and put it back into Schwab. A few hours
later, this real suave guy calls me from Marcus and was like "so I see you
withdrew every penny out of this account...is there something going on" and I'm
like "yeah I'm buying an apartment so I need the flexibility" and he's like
cool. Not suave enough to convince me to stay. I decide against closing the
account while on the phone, but then reverse my position and close the account a
few hours later.

I will remember this shit. I still remember when I had like $100 in my Schwab
account because I opened it because they had the closest branch next to where I
lived in Bethesda, and I got a 1:1 discussion with a Schwab investment advisor
and they still respected me even though I was poor. Now I'm still poor-ish but
less so and Schwab is still nice to me. On the other hand, I remember how Chase
tried to sell me a credit card when I lost a third of my net worth because they
gave out my account number or something. I applied for Amazon's credit card, got
approved, and immediately canceled when I realized it was through Chase. Fuck
that shit. I mean hell, I remember how State Farm fired my dad as their customer
when he got into a car accident when I was in third grade, and to this day I
still won't consider them for anything because I know in my hour of need they
will abandon me.

So I learned my lesson, Schwab is my hero! Go with Schwab. And American Express.
And to hell with everything else.
