import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-04-01",
  title: "Morning Pages: April 1st, 2020",
  description: "Morning Pages: April 1st, 2020",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), the D.C.
metro region has been in a state of partial lockdown. To alleviate fear and
stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages" get-together
on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some of my brief
thoughts.

---

My God, my habit tracker changed their UX yesterday, again. They do some simple
things, like display the amount of time a timed habit should take, or changing
the width of the swipe prompt. But then they also change the scroll context of
the menu. Now, you have to scroll the entire length of the menu in order to see
which habits you have or haven't done, and they don't auto-move to the bottom of
the list after they're done or skipped. _And some things are broken._ Like if
you swipe right on a portion of the menu, it might freeze and not display
properly until you close the app and re-open it. And if you complete a task from
the day before resulting in all tasks completed, the streak is still broken.

I really don't get why they keep changing the UX. Don't they know some of us
like the app just the way it is? Don't they have `git` flow where they can
manage multiple releases with just security updates only? This is the whole
reason why I wanted to build [TinyDev](https://tinydevcrm.com), and now that
TinyDev is struggling I get another kick in the pants.

I mean, it's fine for now, I have a thing where I email myself a list of habits
to do every day, but this is plainly annoying. Might be a necessary motivator
though.

---

I got a full load of groceries yesterday! Costco apparently delivers with
Instacart, and my mom ordered $100 worth of groceries about 4 or 5 days ago. The
delivery guy said if you need any gluten-free or restricted foods to stockpile
them now, and I'm grateful that I can eat anything. Decontaminating groceries is
a full two hours of work though. I'm wiping down all my bananas with Clorox, and
very carefully disposing of any plastic wrappers before they touch the inside of
my refrigerator. With this four week long cough and the weird feeling in my
lungs I might have COVID-19 already and just not know it, but with this
procedure I can demonstrate self-care and prove I live in the best of all
possible worlds.

What I should do is record the decontamination procedure from that one Michigan
physician YouTube video into my cooking notes, and then maybe share it with the
MicroConf Connect community.

---

So depressing news aside, here's another cute picture to start the day off with:

![babyyyy](/img/posts/2020/04/01/morning_pages.jpg)

Good morning to you too!
