import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
    author: "Ying Wang",
    date: "2020-07-26",
    title: "TV Show Review: "The Office", by Greg Daniels, Ricky Gervais, Stephen Merchant et. al.",
    description: "TV Show Review: "The Office", by Greg Daniels, Ricky Gervais, Stephen Merchant et. al.",
    categories: ['Television'],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

I am generally not a big fan of television. "The Office" is the first TV show I
can say I watched from end to end, ever. This is me thinking all the way back to
grade school.

I think I only want to watch shows that have finished because I'm terrified of
[a huge disappointment at the very end of the show that ruins
everything](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Game_of_Thrones_(season_8)>). If it's
finished, and gets good reviews all the way through, and [ages like fine
wine](https://www.eonline.com/news/956329/the-enduring-popularity-of-the-office),
then it's a safe bet that it's a good watch. Also, no advertisements! Also
apparently it's comforting to immerse yourself in an environment where you
already know the ending, which makes it comforting content in uncertain times.

That being said, _wow_. I can kind of get why people enjoy watching TV now.
Besides the addiction aspect, TV sometimes has good content, and "The Office" is
one show where I really laughed and cried with the characters. Working in an
office for three years made everything much funnier. It's like a healthy release
of pain and suffering through comedy.

If I were an Office character, I don't think I'd be Jim. Everybody wants to be
Jim. Jim's too perfect, the doting husband and romantic who gives up his dream
job to be with his wife. I'm probably an amalgamation of multiple characters. I
have Michael's aloofness, Dwight's rigidity, Andy's predilection for untimely
breakdowns, and at times Phyllis's passive aggressiveness. I'm not Ryan, thank
God, but I don't see myself as a saint. On the other hand, I also have Michael's
loyalty, Dwight's shrewdness, and (I like to think) Pam's people skills.

I felt so empty after finishing the finale. I wish I could forget it all and
watch it again for the first time. This is where I'm hoping the "fine wine"
aspect comes in, and rewatching episodes is just as, if not more, enjoyable as
the first time.

I feel like there are very few cult classic TV shows that match "The Office".
I'm thinking "Parks and Rec" might be one, so I might try that. I tried watching
"Community" back in the day but knowing Chevy Chase is a bit of a jerk kind of
ruins it for me. Other great TV shows, like "Breaking Bad", I think are
unhealthy role models for me. "Friends" I've heard has dated racial jokes, I
think "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" and "Curb Your Enthusiasm" are still
running. I'm incredibly picky.

---

You can watch free episodes of the office [here](https://watchtheoffice.online).
I for one purchased the boxed DVD set and a DVD player (yes, _a DVD player_) in
order to watch it on my laptop without [needing Netflix or
anything](https://www.cnn.com/2019/06/25/media/the-office-netflix-leaving/index.html).
Then I can burn the videos to a USB drive, and [upscale them to 4K as
necessary](https://write.corbpie.com/upscaling-and-downscaling-video-with-ffmpeg/).
