import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-01-15",
  title: "What my QC25s taught me about designing long-lasting interfaces",
  description:
    "What my QC25s taught me about designing long-lasting interfaces",
  categories: ["Properties"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="default" {...props} />
);

**I'm not paid or otherwise incentivized by Bose. Bose just knocked this one
specific product out of the park for my use cases, and I'm grateful for their
hard work.**

**(Correction on 01/16/2020)**: Original version of this post described a
variety of integrated features with newer headphones.
[**`lobste.rs`**](https://lobste.rs) user
[**`jelly`**](https://lobste.rs/u/jelly) pointed out that you can replace the
ear cushions on the Bose QC35s and listen to audio via headphone jack. In
addition, the Bose 700s are also headphone jack compatible. I updated one
paragraph to be more specific with product/feature associations.

---

[I don't like new stuff](/posts/2020/01/13/50years). Occasionally though, I buy
the new thing that's well worth it. Let me tell you about my Bose QuietComfort
25s and how they taught me how wonderful well-designed interfaces can be.

---

It's 2015, and either I'll find a way to get some peace and quiet at home, or
I'll throw my roommate out the 2nd floor window and go to jail. So as a poor
college student, I decided to splurge on some nice new headphones. I got the
QC25s, Bose's flagship headphones product at the time.

The core features of the QC25s are:

- Over-ear cushions

- AAA battery for noise cancellation

- 3.5mm headphone jack

I didn't think much of this feature list at the time. It worked.

Some months passed, and as my fears of leaving my super-expensive headphones on
the library desk for randos to steal subsided as newer headphones came onto the
market, I realized the ear cushions were wearing out mighty quick. They're made
up of this weak, two-layered, fake leather stuff that just started
disintegrating. They also started fraying and popping open along a seam,
exposing the foam interior.

I started looking for new headphones, and since I was still a college student at
the time, I was dismayed at the possibility of my headphones wearing out so
soon and having to spend hundreds of dollars on new stuff. So imagine my joy
when I found Bose sold _official replacement ear cushions_. They're $35 and have
2.5/5 stars (bad), and cheaper than a new pair of headphones (good). So I bought
a pair, popped off the old ear cushions, and popped in the new ear cushions.
Just like new!

After college, I also started traveling more regularly by airplane, since with
an income I could afford to fly back home more often. Planes are loud, and basic
economy seats are very loud (and very cheap). The nice thing about jet engine
noise is its uniformity, so it's pretty trivial for active noise cancellation to
attenuate it and make the trip quite pleasant. My problem is since I use noise
cancelling often, the battery would die at inopportune times, and I'd have no
idea when to change out the battery. One day, the battery died at the airport. I
was so mad, I bought an overpriced 8-pack of AAA batteries from an airport gift
shop and just crammed it into my headphones case. To my delight, the case
comfortably held 8 batteries at a time! So now I always travel with 8 new AAA
batteries. Can't die on me now!

I started going to the gym, and having wired earbuds while exercising is not a
good idea for your outer ear canal. So I bought some wireless earbuds, and they
were so great, I wanted a set of over-ear Bluetooth headphones to wear while
walking down the street. I started looking for a new pair of headphones, and on
a whim searched for a Bluetooth to 2.5mm adapter. To my amazement, a company
called Bolle & Raven made a Bluetooth adapter _specifically for the QC25s_, as
in _a PCB / antenna that conforms to the QC25s' shape_. I immediately bought
one, plugged it in, synced it to my phone, and voila! A pair of
Bluetooth-capable headphones! I stuffed it into my headphones case.

The ear cushions wore out again. Bought a new pair and replaced it. I got black
this time, instead of the default beige. My headphones are now uniquely
identifiable.

The default QC25 audio/mic cable died. Went to the Bose store and got a free
replacement cable, which is audio only. I think it might have been the rep's
personal one, but I'm not sure. Great customer service.

I recently bought a new Lenovo ThinkPad P1 two months ago, and I booted Ubuntu
alongside Windows 10 Professional for Workstations. I messed up Windows Boot
Manager, making my Windows partition unusable. Then I realized my internal
microphone didn't work on a call with a friend when running Ubuntu. A quick
search on DuckDuckGo revealed Dolby Audio doesn't make open-source drivers for
its hardware. How would I do interviews or video chat people? Luckily, the 3.5mm
laptop jack was mic-capable. So I looked for a boom microphone, and sure enough,
I found one compatible with the QC25s. Tried it out a few days ago. Worked like
a charm, so I stuffed it into my headphones case too.

The internal mic does work. Dolby isn't evil like that. The light means the mic
is actively disabled. Ubuntu is great at setting sane defaults to prevent audio
feedback. I am less smart than I think I am.

---

Every time I use these headphones, I just think of how lucky I was to find them.
I look at my friends and coworkers, who got the Bose QC35s with the integrated
battery, or the Bose 700s with integrated ear cushions and integrated voice
assistants, or Sony or Sennheiser whatevers, and I feel sorry for them.

I don't need to remember to wait to charge my batteries before a flight, or
worry about battery degradation, and crack my case open and void the warranty,
or pay out the nose for a service repair or special OEM battery, to get my noise
cancellation. I recycle my batteries at the local Home Depot, so it should be
eco-friendly. It's decently cheap. As I'm looking now, a 100-pack of
AmazonBasics 1.5V AAA alkaline batteries costs $17.84 USD. That's good for at
least two to three years, if not many more.

I can connect my headphones to my IBM ThinkPad T42 from 2003, which I hope to
turn into my master reference laptop someday (since 32-bit systems are more or
less "done"), through the 3.5mm headphone jack and not have to worry about
Bluetooth driver compatibility issues. I can probably boot Ubuntu into console
mode and play audio files via the terminal, and listen via 3.5mm. I don't think
I could do that with Bluetooth.

When I wanted Bluetooth support, it's a matter of protocol translation. Given an
able and willing customer base, it was technically and financially feasible for
a company to create and sell an adapter to me. When Apple got rid of the 3.5mm
headphone jack when I migrated from an iPhone 5S to an iPhone 7, that Bluetooth
adapter meant I could listen to my daily meditation practice without having to
buy and carry around an extra special Lightning dongle. There was talk and drama
last year of Apple ditching Lightning altogether for USB-C. I didn't care,
because I know $NEW_APPLE_THING should support Bluetooth.

If Dolby had turned evil and had locked their internal microphone at the
firmware or hardware level to only work with Windows and their proprietary
drivers, which in a world of DRM'ed coffee machines I wouldn't have second
guessed, I wouldn't have been afraid of that either. I got a 3.5mm mic output,
and I think that should be visible to any motherboard. I think it's just...metal
leads underneath. I don't see how you could prevent access to it without raising
questions from the rest of the supply chain.

I don't even have to worry about my headphones looking old. I can get new ear
cushions whenever I want to. Probably scrub the inner band with shampoo too,
it's quite filthy.

Interfaces made my QC25s last. I love my QC25s because of that. In a world where
the only constant is change, my headphones can go where I go. I hope I can pass
these headphones down to my children as a family heirloom. If I became a
millionaire, I'd be willing to pay thousands of dollars for those damn ear
cushions just so Bose would find supporting spare QC25 parts for the long term
financially worthwhile.

---

I may or may not be working on some personal projects this year that I intend on
using for myself. Making software that remains scoped yet relevant to
third-party services means choosing a set of well-defined, well-documented, and
{forwards, backwards}-compatible interfaces. Do it right, and I may avoid the
scope creep, correctness and performance issues from combinatorial state
explosions, and maintenance overhead that befall many other projects. We'll see
whether it'll happen, and if it does, whether I can do my job as well as Bose's
engineers.
