---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Television
title: 'TV Show Review: "Barbarians", by Andreas Heckmann, Arne Nolting, and Jan Martin Scharf'
date: "2021-04-03T20:39:20-04:00"
draft: false
---

So the company I work for sent everybody a care package because they're pretty
awesome. Bundled within this care package is a Netflix gift card. I scratched
off the Netflix gift card like it said, and it gave me a $25 credit, which is
around 1.5 months of binging at 1080p.

I personally have never signed up for Netflix, and before this gift card
arrived, had never planned to. I'm a DVD kind of guy, I buy a DVD boxed set and
watch my DVDs using a USB-to-DVD player. I find Comcast screws with my Internet
too often, shows often jump ship because streaming is starting to segment based
on original content, and I don't like variety, enough in order to make that
tradeoff worth it for me.

But I'm a history buff kind of guy, and there's this [one YouTube
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ojC-zTXSAsY) of this one show on Netflix
where one horseman speaks some pretty legit-sounding Latin. I'm like _woah_ and
I decide maybe to check out this TV show. So after I scratch off the card I'm
like _maybe I won't give this to my next-door neighbor to curry favor or
whatever_ and apply that to a brand-new Netflix account.

And oh my God was this show horrible.

Here's some reasons why:

- **Too many sex scenes:** Like why. I want history. I want the old History
  Channel. But noooo. Here's an unrelated sex scene between these two Germans
  I don't care too much about. Also a not-sex scene between Arminius and
  Thusnelda on their wedding day. No emperor Augustus. Very little Varus. I
  don't mind sex scenes (in fact I think it's pretty cool) but I think Netflix
  is trying too hard to capitalize on the "Netflix and chill" shtick (tbf it
  does sell subscriptions). I think that'll be a common thing when I browse
  further Netflix categories. Like "Steamy" is one category.

- **Little character development:** No Arminius growing up in the Eternal
  City. No change of heart besides maybe two or three conversations between
  Arminius and Varus. No real organizing of the Germanic tribes or seeing how
  they prepare the ambush or train to fight legionnairies besides "the Romans
  kidnapped your children so fight together hurrah". It's just like these
  random Germans running around in the forest.

  Literally, the final battle takes up part of one episode. The greatest
  defeat arguably in Roman history and you devote part of one episode?

And those kind of just bring me to the last point:

- **It's revisionist:** It's so clear and obvious that it kind of sucks you
  out of the story. "Germans good, Romans bad". If they actually fleshed out
  the characters more, and made it so it's just not having sex and killing
  people but actual, real human thought, it would have been more enjoyable. I
  think for me as an audience, I like it when I don't know when the next twist
  or turn is going to be. There's a limit in history because you can read
  history, but you can always make it a bit more interesting (e.g. talking
  about one of the side characters at length in order to give the battle
  itself a bit more scale), and this is just...not that.

Sigh. Now I'm not quite sure what Netflix titles to watch next. Maybe "The Good
Place" since it's one of the shows by Michael Schur and I heard it was good, or
something else. I think with Netflix, I'll start a habit of not finishing TV
shows (because they cancel shows all the time anyways). Also didn't add my
credit card (they have that option btw to just go off of a gift card), so I'll
just watch shows until my gift card expires.
