import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2018-09-28",
  title: "Sandcastles",
  description: "Sandcastles",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

I came across a meditation practice that I've been thinking about for some time
that I've found very useful in thinking about life.

A lot of us software engineers, at least the good ones, care deeply about our
work and how it is made. Like a baker with cakes, or a blacksmith with swords,
or an entrepreneur with a business, if there's a defect with the end product,
it's like a monument to our failures. If such defects accumulate over time
without our ability to address them, it hurts us even more; if those defects are
introduced due to forces outside our control, more still.

I think it's why people die; those little nicks in our soul, conspiring with the
general unraveling of our telomeres, make it painful to enjoy the fruits of life
and life itself. This is of course to say nothing of deeper trauma; [one Hacker
News article I read](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=18083509) talks more
in-depth about this phenomenon, which ends in psychogenic death, where "nothing
-- no warning, no beating, no pleading -- can make them want to live". I've
noticed the cumulative stress from work and school over the years has caused me
to age as well, particularly around the eyes. Before I had wrinkles and deep
bags underneath my eyes; today I discovered I have wrinkles on top of my
wrinkles when I squint. It makes an interesting grid pattern.

One thing that helps is seeing your creations as sandcastles.

When you're not experienced with building a sandcastle, you would start off
simple:

[simple](/img/posts/2018/09/28/sandcastles_1.jpg)

And later on, when you gain more experience in building a sandcastle, you might
try for something a bit more complex:

[complex](/img/posts/2018/09/28/sandcastles_2.jpg)

There's a common thread linking these two otherwise vastly different creations:
_their impermanence_. Sooner or later, the sun will dry them out, the wind will
erode their surfaces, and the waves will wash them away. Is it sad that they are
gone and things will never be the same? Of course it is. But that's not why we
create them. We make them because their very creation makes us happy, because we
climb a small hill in our lives and enjoy the view for a little while.

So it is with code, or cakes, or swords, or businesses, or nations, or life in
general. It's exciting when they begin anew. It's enjoyable while it lasts. And
when it ends, we remember the good times, the good memories, and how we made
other people feel.

---

Thinking this way, along with copious breathing exercises, has helped me
navigate a lot of the minefields through life that have sunk me in the past and
would otherwise sink me now. Yes, it exists; no, it's not perfect; yes, it makes
people happy and that should make me happy. Will it end one day? Of course. But
don't let that fact distract you from the here and now.
