---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Books
title: 'Book Review: "The Five Love Languages: The Secret to Love that Lasts", by Gary Chapman'
date: "2018-12-26T11:56:50-05:00"
draft: false
---

I read this book because I wanted to understand how relationships evolve over
time, and how they remain strong. I've heard of the "emotional high" couples get
into in the beginning of a relationship, and I don't want to rely on that
carrying a relationship I get into. Not that I don't want to enjoy that high,
but I don't want to be left empty-handed after the high wears off.

I first heard of "love languages" from a friend while we were getting matcha
sundaes at a cafe in Japan. I thought it was a weird and unnecessary topic at
the time, but as the years have worn on, I've come to value and prioritize
emotion and love more and that means needing to understand it. This book,
written from a marriage counselor's point of view and filled with anonymized
stories of couples that had their marriages healed, is a pretty good
introduction to what love languages are and how speaking your SO's love language
and dialect will help shore up your emotional security.

There was a little quiz at the end of the book to self-assess your favorite love
languages and I thought I should share what my score was:

- Words of Affirmation: 5

- Quality Time: 8

- Receiving Gifts: 4

- Acts of Service: 5

- Physical Touch: 8

I think this is a pretty accurate picture. I really like physical touch (like
back rubs or massages or touches on the shoulder) and spending quality time,
with acts of service and words of affirmation ranking second and gifts being
last. I think time is our most valuable resource since we can't generate more of
it, and as we get wealthier in life time becomes more valuable with respect to
money. I like acts of service and words of affirmation, but I see these as
complementary to my own practices (mindfulness and logotherapy, and being able
to do things myself to maintain my own independence). I don't really like giving
gifts or receiving gifts.

I hope I can continue to practice these with people I choose to interact with
emotionally, and improve upon those interactions.
