import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-03-18",
  title: "Morning Pages, March 18th, 2020",
  description: "Morning Pages, March 18th, 2020",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), the D.C.
metro region has been in a state of partial lockdown. To alleviate fear and
stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages" get-together
on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some of my brief
thoughts.

---

Last night I was pretty worried about what to do in the situation where both my
parents died. They picked up my little brother from college and he's in
"quarantine" at home for two weeks, but I don't know how much is enough. If
anything happens to them, I'll be caught flat-footed and vulnerable to predatory
actors who might want a chunk of the estate. I don't think being paranoid will
help things. I think I should probably put together some sort of a checklist of
items of things to do in that situation. I'll add it to my todo list.

I'm sick with something viral. A dry cough with no fever. It's been like this
for about a week or two. I've been sick for weeks on end at times with just a
cold, so this isn't surprising, but the inability to get coronavirus tests is a
bit scary. I actually wish I had nausea or something because those are
explicitly not symptoms of coronavirus.

My productivity has been shit over the past few days. I checked my GitHub and
apparently I had zero commits over the past four days alone. I promised people I
would have an MVP by the end of the week, and I'm not sure how reasonable that
might be. I don't have a deployment path set up after a week of running through
tutorials. Turns out good tutorials on how to set up production sites on AWS
without the usage of AWS RDS is extremely hard, and I wasted a lot of time by
doing so. Pretty disappointing.

Good things. I'm really happy I got my bike back from the old office bike cage.
They cut both my locks, and I'm not sure where my bike-mounted flashlight,
grocery panniers, and kickstand are (or at least it wasn't on the bike), but my
bike is still there in one piece. I love this bike, I had it when I was a kid,
and I have around 1,500 miles on it. Just got the gear mechanism replaced a few
years ago too. I decided to keep it in my apartment in order to avoid the raw
sewage that bubbles up in the apartment complex bike room. It's nice just
looking at it and having it in my life. I thought it had been scrapped.
