import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-06-15",
  title: "A Tale of Two Kings",
  description: "A Tale of Two Kings",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

Maybe I'm just on a history or religion bend, or maybe just surfing Wikipedia a
bit too hard, but I've been engrossed reading about two different kings:
[Michael I of Romania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_I_of_Romania), and
[Peter II of Yugoslavia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_II_of_Yugoslavia).
I don't know if anybody else has posed the contrast between these two relatively
unknown figures, but I found their lives to be a powerful lesson in dealing with
unimaginable loss and uncontrollable situations.

Both kings became kings when they were very young and on the backs of
controversy. Both kings lost their kingdoms, during World War II no less. Both
kings never regained their kingdoms. But while one king died in obscurity and
shame surrounded by bitter former mandarins, the other was eventually welcomed
home by tens of thousands of, if not loyal subjects, devoted admirers.

---

[king peter](/img/posts/2020/06/15/two_kings_2.jpg)

This is Peter II of Yugoslavia. Peter's father was assassinated when he was 11
years old. Peter came to power on the back of a coup d'etat, right before World
War II broke out; his father's cousin was overthrown after a territorial dispute
between (you guessed it) Croats and Serbs, and after declaring he would join the
Axis.

The coup was backed by the British, and was very popular in the city of
Belgrade. The coup itself was bloodless, and the coup leader didn't try to take
power for himself but rather backed the young king. The new government
compromised a number of different political parties representing a comprehensive
union of different ethnicities in Yugoslavia. All this with Peter doing pretty
much nothing, as far as I can tell. As far as kings go throughout history, he's
living life on easy mode.

The party ended shortly afterwards. The Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union also
targeted Yugoslavia. Within two weeks, the government surrendered, and the
country was carved up by the Axis.

Here, Peter makes a huge mistake. _He flees._ Notwithstanding that Yugoslavia
had only formed in 1918 and never fought a major conflict with another country
as a multi-ethnic union, Yugoslavia also didn't exist as part of "the West" and
"the West" didn't see Yugoslavia as "one of them". We know this because Winston
Churchill split up Yugoslavia after the war...[on a
napkin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percentages_agreement). By contrast, King
Christian X of Denmark famously refused to leave his people, while King Haakon
VII of Norway led the Nazis on a wild goose chase around the country, linking
together resistance cells before leaving with the country's gold reserves.

Back to Peter. Only a handful of ministers leave with him, primarily the Serbs,
which now surround the king disproportionately. The union of voices is
disrupted, and the legitimacy of the king (who, remember, came to power via
coup) becomes even murkier. Peter also travels to London, where he is lavished
with attention and fine goods from the Western Allies (such as a luxury
Buick...oh how times change). Not a good look when your countrymen are rounded
up and shot by the thousands, if not starving. By contrast, Queen Elizabeth the
Queen Mother remarked that she was glad Buckingham Palace was bombed, because
then she could look the East End in the face.

Only then, did Peter realize _since he didn't bring his army with him, he
couldn't contribute to the war effort_. With no contribution, the Allies start
ignoring him, because war is stressful enough as it is. So Peter starts looking
for "his army" back home. He finds them in the
[Chetniks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chetniks), a _Serbian_ movement within
Yugoslavia. Peter thinks they're freeing the whole country and restoring him to
the throne. He's wrong, but we'll get to that.

So he has an army, okay. Instead of getting Yugoslavs on the ground, British
special operations troops parachute in instead. So they're the ones on the
ground coordinating and communicating, which means a foreign interest is the
only thing tying together the king and his army. This is like if the U.S.
president had to talk to an aircraft carrier in the Middle East through Mexico.

Atrocities start mounting between Croats and Serbs. The cabinet, made up of
Croats and Serbs, start blaming each other and work grinds to a halt. The
general who put Peter in power is made prime minister because "he's not a
politician". Turns out, he is a politician, because you can't be prime minister
and not be a politician. He's just a bad one. So that's nice.

Back to the Chetniks. The Nazis aren't nice people, and they start killing a
hundred civilians for every Nazi killed..._and the Chetniks back down_ --
because they want to limit civilian casualties. So they waited for the Allies to
land in Yugoslavia and liberate them, which never happened. Instead, the
Yugoslav Partisans led by a guy named Tito took up the slack, while the Chetnik
rank and file began collaborating with the Nazis. So much for Peter's army.

Peter began discussions with Greece in order to create a pan-Balkan union. That
pissed off the Soviet Union, which began supporting the Partisans and Tito. Then
Peter thought it'd be a great idea to balance out Britain with the Soviet Union
and the United States, because pissing off the country that's sheltering you
from the Nazis is a great idea. That idea failed too, and now the U.K and the
U.S. began thinking about supporting Tito.

So what does Peter do to rectify the situation? _He marries a woman_, which
wouldn't have been a problem, except _Serbian culture did not look kindly on
leaders marrying during a national emergency_. So Peter ended up pissing off the
Serbs, the last faction that might have had him as a leader.

After the war, the Soviet Union hated him, the British hated him, the Americans
hated him, the Serbs hated him, the Croats hated him, the Bosnians hated him,
his cabinet hated him, and probably the Martians hated him too.

Peter lived the rest of his life in exile, spending money on lavish items (until
his checks bounced), speaking out against Tito (until the U.S. government told
him to stop), and deserting his family (until he realized he had nobody else).
He ultimately died from drinking too heavily, forgotten by his countrymen, in a
foreign land.

That was depressing just to type up.

---

[king michael](/img/posts/2020/06/15/two_kings_1.jpg)

This is Michael I of Romania. His story is a bit more cheerful.

Michael doesn't get the benefit of a loyalist coup. Right from the get-go, he's
dealing with fascists and Nazis. [Ion
Antonescu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ion_Antonescu), the fascist prime
minister, likes Hitler and thinks invading Russia is a good idea. It isn't, and
when the Soviets come to Romania's doorstep looking for blood, Michael coups
Ion and hands him over to the Soviets. This was _extremely_ risky for Michael;
Miklos Horthy of Hungary tried the same thing and the Nazis [kidnapped his son
for execution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mikl%C3%B3s_Horthy). By some
estimates, Michael's actions could have shortened World War II in Europe by six
months, by complicating Nazi Germany's plans.

The Soviets, having already wanted Romania anyways, unceremoniously kicked
Michael out of Romania at gunpoint shortly after the war. Michael put up a small
fight, but recognized that as long as the Soviet Union existed, Romania wouldn't
be free. So he let it go, went and got a job, and started a family.

After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Michael returned to Romania. Speaking
from a hotel balcony after denied a podium, he attracted over one million people
who came to see him.

Michael _chose_ not to reassert his authority over the throne, and instead went
on diplomatic missions on behalf of Romania's new democratic republic, lobbying
NATO and the EU for admission. Romania is now part of both organizations.

When King Michael died, he was transported from Switzerland to Romania on a
large train, seen off by some of the largest funeral crowds in modern Romanian
history, and buried with full state honors.

---

The Biblical [Book of Kings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Books_of_Kings) is a
sinusoidal roller-coaster of (bad times make strong men) -> (strong men make
good times) -> (good times make weak men) -> (weak men make bad times). So I
found it striking that even recently, this trend is true. One man can make a
difference, whether through profound incompetence or negligence, or through
stoic acceptance and perserverance through the circumstances.
