
import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
    author: "Ying Wang",
    date: "2020-12-05",
    title: "Book Review: "Accelerate: Building and Scaling High Performing Technology Organizations", by Nichole Forsgren, Jez Humble, and Gene Kim",
    description: "Book Review: "Accelerate: Building and Scaling High Performing Technology Organizations", by Nichole Forsgren, Jez Humble, and Gene Kim",
    categories: ['Books'],
};

export const metadata = {
    title: article.title,
    description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
    <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);


I got this book on the recommendation of my manager; I had it for a few months
now in my Amazon "Saved for Later" (seriously, what's up with that, if I add an
item to my cart and then don't want it I can only save for later vs. adding to
my wishlist), and during a 1:1 I mentioned I had it there, and he bought it for
me!! So I spent the past month or so reading through it on and off.

I think this book confirmed a lot of my original ideas about how software in
production should be working. I say original as coming out of college into my
first job and reading through a bunch of books on software. The thing about
"original" though is I gradually lost my compass as the years went on, and
doubted my original beliefs because of places I've worked at had different needs
(and honestly addressed them in ways that could have gone better). This book
brought back a lot of the core arguments, and backed them up with data.

I think what this book really excels at is selling the concept of survey
management and qualitative data. I think for me as an engineer, I tend to value
quantitative data a lot. The arguments against quantitative data they made, like
"oh if something went wrong with your quantitative data a whole bunch of data
points are off in the same way vs. much more stochastic outliers with bad
qualitative data" and "you cant capture everything with your quantitative data"
didn't really appeal a whole lot to me. Yeah, quantitative data can be bad, but
there are ways in order to preserve data quality and I think at this point in
the tech world people should be on the same page regarding quantitative data not
capturing the full source of truth. I do agree though that having more data is
always nice, and given data around people's thoughts, feelings, perceptions,
etc. changes constantly, taking snapshots of that data and evolving that schema
with people trained in-house to do so is really important for measuring org
efficacy. I've seen this at my current place; we use this tool called Lattice,
and it's really nice to keep track of 1:! / skip-level agenda items, weekly
updates, and pulse surveys. This is on top of Google Forms (which I think come
with our G Suite account), and third-party form builders like Qualtrics or
SurveyMonkey.

Another good thing the book does is to tie in org culture with DevOps. I've seen
this first-hand, working at orgs just with access to CI and without access to
CI; it's a complete world of difference, because with CI the nits don't build up
and cause friction between people and orgs. Wide permissions and audit trails
help create a high-trust (but verifiable) environment, and logging + quality
deployment topologies means easy tracing and patching of issues. Implementing
all this really does add a smile to your lips and a bounce to your step when
you're coming into work (or opening the laptop lid) every day.

One thing I wish the book did better was present its captured data. It mentioned
that it's based off of a "State of DevOps" report, but I don't think the report
is highlighted (or if it is, highlighted in color because this is black/white
paperback). It'd also be nice in order to have a copy of the raw survey data as
a CSV file hosted somewhere, so people / organizations can make their own
deductions and see how the deductions are broken down within the book. There's
some charts in the book to back some arguments, but I wish they were more
substantive.

Overall, I think it's a quality book in order to adjust your org outlook, esp.
if you're part of a larger organization (I don't know what a change assessment
board is, I'm guessing it's relevant in larger orgs). Pretty quick, and fun too.
