---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "One Year From Now: April 2nd, 2022"
date: "2021-04-02T20:32:48-04:00"
draft: true
---

From April 2nd, 2021, one year after the start of COVID and Morning Poppins:

I really do hope we have herd immunity around now. I really hope I get to see
the new office. It'd be nice to be dating somebody or something like that. It'd
also be cool to have the courage to own a pet and be responsible for another
living thing. Maybe I'll have hiked a mountain or a hill by this time nearby
(like Shenandoah, which I've always talked about but never gone to). Maybe I'll
be doing comedy at Ali's comedy shows in-person! Maybe I'll build an app, but
even if I don't I don't think I'll beat myself up over it. It'd be cool to clock
over 1000 miles on my e-bike (haven't been riding it as much as I need to to
keep the battery healthy). It'd be nice to get a promotion at work! Tech lead of
the data engineering team or something like that.

Saying something to Ali a year from now!

Hey Ali! Woahhhh a whole two years since the pandemic started. Not that we
should be remembering that anyways. There's new and exciting things about the
world we have yet to explore. I'm not sure if you are dating somebody or
married, but I've never been to a wedding and I promise to dress up and get you
something nice on the registry. I really like your comedy shows, and I'm really
glad I got to attend another one and expect to be at a comedy show (unlike that
last time where I brought my backpack to a beer hall expecting to write
quietly). While I'm at things that might possibly happen, I love how you
purchased the deli downstairs from the salon from how successful the writer's
salon has been, and now we get free sandwiches when we come here to write
instead of having to pay $12. I'm just joking. But am I.

Once upon a time, there was a ball of lipids.
And every day, it infected 3 people.
Until one day, it became a pandemic.
And because of that, people got stressed.
And because of that, people ate more.
And because of that, people got fat.
And because of that, more lipids existed in the world.
And because of that, some people made a vaccine.
And because of that, the pandemic ended.
And because of that, people started exercising.
Until finally, the fat in the world stayed the same.
And ever since then, we wear a mask.
