---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "Morning Pages: December 31st, 2020"
date: "2020-12-31T08:37:55-05:00"
draft: false
---

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), I've been
locking myself down until I think it's safe to go out again. To alleviate fear
and stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages"
get-together on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some
of my brief thoughts.

---

I like this comparison.

![yzma](/img/posts/2020/12/31/morning_pages.jpg)

<sup>is that my voice? is that _my_ voice?? <sup>oh i guess so</sup></sup>

---

Last day of 2020!!!!! So much to be excited about, both the year ending and
having a fresh year coming up. I'm currently typing up a set of "year in review"
posts and a set of New Year's Resolutions for 2021. It's actually a bit of a
slog. I finished an entire book's worth of financial ledging, and I wanted to
digitize those records so that I would have it. Turns out, digitizing three
year's worth of pay periods and bad handwriting in a few days is not a fun
experience. I wish there was somebody who I could like pay or something in order
to scan this in, but that would mean handing over some personal financial
information to a third party, which I'm unwilling to do. No OCR software or
anything like that too. Sigh. I think the data entry will be a good experience,
and I'll only need to do it every three years or so.

This is what I call progress. It's like the whole milk and cookies thing.

![oh no](/img/posts/2020/12/31/milk_and_cookies.png)

I record everything in my notes, then I want to digitize my notes in order to
run visualizations, then I need to move to on-prem because [I don't trust Google
to make Sheets run properly on
Firefox](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22686281), then I need to build
out my own spreadsheet software because I don't like the other ones I'm using.
It's a very convoluted process for something that shouldn't be a big deal. Most
people just say fuck it and don't record this stuff at all.

---

I'm not sure whether this is actually a thing, but I dream better when I fall
into REM sleep while listening to Calm's Sleep Stories. The Calm app itself
is...kinda shitty to be honest, but they apparently raised a shitton of money
and are now a unicorn. I'm guessing they're spending a bunch of money in order
to pay for actors to read stories, which I think is a pretty nice usage of IP
and content generation. I have two favorite sleep stories, Amy Acton's "The
Velveteen Rabbit" and Nick Offerman's "Big Bad Wolf Learns Anger Management".
And then when I dream I have a much stronger desire in order to get out of bed
and go start my day. I think that's pretty interesting.
