---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "I was once a racist. Here's three things I've learned since then."
date: "2020-06-02T20:48:25-04:00"
draft: false
---

Welcome to my personal blog! I don't usually share my personal content (in fact
this is the first time), but I think this message here should be heard by
others, mostly versions of me living on other timelines in this universe. I
don't keep any kind of trackers or ads or fluff on this site, and I never will.
Please feel free to share with others at your discretion. If you have any
questions / comments / concerns, feel free to email `me@yingw787.com`, and time
/ energy permitting, I'll get back to you.

---

So I went on a walk today from my apartment over to the Georgetown neighborhood,
and this was the scene:

![georgetown](/img/posts/2020/06/02/racism_1.jpg)

One lonely police car, guarding a bunch of boarded up stores. Mind you,
Georgetown is one of the more affluent, pasty-white neighborhoods in D.C., but
anybody can enjoy a fresh, cold ice cream cone from the Haagen-Dazs on M Street.
So I don't think most people, from any racial or socioeconomic background, are
genuinely _happy_ with this situation right now. The peaceful protests, the
separate riots and lootings, _and_ the heavy-handed police and military response
drag many innocent bystanders into a conversation most are uncomfortable having.

So now that we're having it, whether we like it or not, I think it's a great
time for me to add to that discussion on my own terms. I hope my words can help
people heal, appreciate the things that are really important in life, and spark
introspection in a time of questioning.

---

I'm a logical, methodical person at my core, who for many years, didn't believe
in the power of the heart, the spirit, or the soul. I wanted to be a machine,
and not feel anything. To my past self, emotions seemed like an artifact of our
baser selves, a reminder from when we climbed down from the trees, an anchor
preventing us from reaching a higher level on the [Kardashev
scale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kardashev_scale). _If only we could let go
of our feelings, we could achieve so much more._

But neglecting emotions doesn't magically remove them, it just nurtures them in
an unhealthy manner. For example, my practical success cost me my perspective.
In grade school, since I always scored near the top of the class in many
disciplines and since those who scored similarly were of a similar race or
ethnicity, I succumbed to subtractive, subversive thoughts and paradigms like
"blacks don't study as hard as Asians" and worse things I won't mention here. I
didn't always say them, because historically I said them and was punished for
it, but the belief always survived. I suspect that we're where we are now
because sometimes you don't get punished, and that for many, this is where the
story ends.

That's not where my story ended, though. I was fortunate enough to go to
university on other people's money, and meet people from all over the world,
including some straight from Africa. I tell you the truth, the African
internationals were some of the hardest-working, and kindest, people I've ever
met in my life. I recall one friend at the time came in at a lower level of
math, one I accomplished and got credit for. By the end of college, he studied
at a higher level than I did, got his dream girl and his dream job, and remained
his bubbly and chatty self. For many reasons, some apart from being racist, that
wasn't the case for me.

I like standing on my principles, even if I have to do things the hard way.
Instead of twisting my principles to fit my worldview, which would have been the
easy, convenient thing to do, I questioned whether said principles stood on
solid ground. Here was a man who I recognized was better than me in most every
field I cared about. If one case disproves a postulate, that postulate has to go
out the window, right? So I did a 180 internally, and began working towards
cutting out any racism from my internal beliefs, because I've seen it be wrong
with my own eyes. It wasn't easy at all, took years, and remains a work in
progress, but I'm reasonably happy with where I am now and how far I've come. I
think you can count that as personal growth.

---

Here's three lessons I've realized in my "racism rollback" journey that I'd like
to share:

**You remember everything, because it's worth remembering.** I've only recently
forgotten enough to remember what's important. How many of us have remembered a
smile from a crush, a compliment from a close friend, years and years _and
years_ after we've forgotten what exactly was on page 23 of that AP U.S. History
textbook or how to implement a Taylor series or that new feature we shipped? So
it is with racism, except less fun. When I think back to those moments when I
hurt people, I realize how the saying "people will forget what you do, but they
will never forget how you make them feel" goes both ways. Then I cringe, because
I can't take those moments back.

**There's no point in hating, it goes nowhere.** Hatred is a drug, and like any
good drug, it messes with your brain to steer you. It's addictive and attractive
once you're riding the spiral. There's always something new to hate, it gets
easier to hate the longer you hate, and it gets harder to escape that loop the
longer you're committed to it. People even relapse like they do with drugs!
[Daryl Davis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daryl_Davis) lifted many Ku Klux
Klan members from this mindset, only for them to fall back into the same habits
once they're surrounded by the same community, or get snagged on the "he's not
like those others" knot that kicks the can down the road.

There's no end to it. You're not going anywhere just chasing the next high,
slicing and dicing blocks of people in your mind, spinning round and round on a
flywheel of bullshit.

You might get off the path, and suffer the withdrawal of changing direction and
communities. But trust me, that small pile of progress is solid, because you can
be at peace with it. Just focus on making that pile a little bit bigger, and
soon enough you'll have enough to build a great life on.

**It's no fun being a loser.** I'm 25 years old. I've never had a significant
other, and I've never had sex. I'm on sabbatical, which has been pretty
productive, but you could characterize me as "unemployed". I'm on pretty bad
terms with more people I can count from my childhood. This may sound like
[r/suicidebywords](https://www.reddit.com/r/suicidebywords/), but if you lift my
lifestyle and background and Venn Diagram it, some parts may well overlap with
people I don't admire, and it's because once upon a time, I was a loser.

So let me tell you, it's no fun being a loser. It's no fun being "edgy", if
that's what you were going for. You're the guy motivational speakers dunk on,
and tell others to cut out of their lives. You suffer inside, because hatred
breeds suffering, and nobody notices or cares because you're not worth
remembering. No amount of outside help matters because you're crooked inside and
everything you touch dies. Your soul looks like this drab and colorless view of
Homs, Syria after a few years of civil war:

![homs](/img/posts/2020/06/02/racism_2.jpg)

All for what? A joke you took too far and can't take back? A distraction from
other problems in your life? Some past trauma that triggers you? It's _still_
not worth it. I've been (nonviolently) robbed multiple times, some by black
people, and the police don't care, and now I shrug and smile when I look back
because it's fine. Life's not fair, and sometimes bad things happen to good
people. That's how bad I've found not letting go and becoming a loser is. Never
be a loser.

---

I have this shtick where I always do things the hard way, and while it's painful
at times, I have a much better understanding of why things are the way that they
are because I feel it in my bones. Hope this helps somebody.
