---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Books
title: "Book Review: \"In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex\", by Nathaniel Philbrick"
date: "2020-07-18T16:10:09-04:00"
draft: false
---

I brought this back to my parent's place during quarantine, and decided that
since my laptop and phone were both out of battery from using it too much, that
I should maybe go read a book. This was the last book I haven't read previously
(because I didn't bring all that many back), and so I decided to give it a go.

It's not bad. It's a true, non-fiction tale of sailors getting rammed by a sperm
whale (which are so named because the "spermateci" or sperm whale oil located in
a gland in the head oxidizes into a waxy substance like semen), and sail half
the circumference of the Pacific Ocean or something because they think cannibals
live on some nearby islands and go the long way around. It's quite a tale of
human survival, an (almost) extinct industry, and what the ocean must have been
like to people a few technological generations back.

I think the Titanic has replaced the Essex as the fate most people fear when
they go out to sea, and nowadays things are safe enough where you generally
don't have to worry about too much as a normal passenger. I'm at least under the
impression that usually it's extreme negligence or stupidity that gets people
into horrible situations at sea in modern times. So it's interesting to see a
tale from another time, really a time before another time, and to gain a sense
of connection to the events around that tragedy.

P.S. as harvesting whales is illegal in everywhere except Japan, it's
interesting to see so many aspects of sperm whales being valued, including sperm
whale poop, sperm whale vomit, and sperm whale intestinal stones (which may be
the poop).
