import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2019-01-06",
  title: 'Book Review: "User Story Mapping" by Jeff Patton',
  description: 'Book Review: "User Story Mapping" by Jeff Patton',
  categories: ["Books"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

I wanted to learn more about effective product management, especially with
regards to Agile/Scrum or Kanban development. I've worked at two different
companies now, and one adage I've heard passed is how "everybody has their own
definition of Agile, and nobody does it right". 'User Story Mapping" is a subset
of Agile development straight from the horse's mouth, and after reading it I got
a good number of insights into how Agile development is supposed to work. Here's
what I learned:

**Stories are meant to spark conversations**: In other words, _get off JIRA_!
One point Jeff keeps pushing over and over again is the notion of _shared
understanding_ between stakeholders, customers, and engineering/product. There
is no amount of documentation you could write that would increase the amount of
shared understanding, because a) requirements change all the time, and b)
documents always have some degree of interpretability to them. Story mapping is
also a complement to story management tooling; you need to do it _in addition to
JIRA_, because at least some stakeholders likely won't use said tool and because
it's easier to have conversations in front of a wall of Post-It Notes instead
of, say, on Slack or email. Optimize your Agile process for shared
understanding and the amount of interprocess communication happening, not clean
backlogs.

**Software and business results are two different things**: You should _cheer_
when you find out a piece of software doesn't need to be written, because the
less software you write (while still making the customer happy), the more
impactful your organization is. Too many engineers think that if they don't
build something, they don't matter. This is kind of true, until you remind them
(us) that _all code is technical debt_ and introduces risk for development
velocity slowdowns, decreased shared understanding, bugs and unintended
behavior, and all the other fun stuff that happens from code merely existing.

**Lazy evaluation is your friend**: Break down requirements on an as-needed
basis; stories that are further away should _NOT_ be broken down into individual
tasks, because there's a good chance those specific tasks will change in the
future, or the story will be thrown away entirely.

**Cleanly define what software should be shipped iteratively, and what should be
shipped iteratively**: Iteratively develop existing features, and incrementally
develop new features. Iterative development provides business value at every
step of the process, which shortens build/measure/learn cycles and makes
software development estimation times more accurate, while incremental
development ensures the organization keeps its eye on the ball and how _all_ the
features combine to create the user experience.

At the end of the day, it's about \*structuring your organization so that
**_everybody cares_** about the customer\* -- also called [Conway's
Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_law), or "don't hate the player,
hate the game". I learned a lot from this book (and a lot more stuff I didn't
cover, like the specifics of building story maps and opportunity maps). If
you're interested in bettering your Agile process, you should definitely buy
[Jeff's
book](https://smile.amazon.com/User-Story-Mapping-Discover-Product/dp/1491904909?sa-no-redirect=1).
