import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-08-15",
  title: "Morning Pages: August 15th, 2020",
  description: "Morning Pages: August 15th, 2020",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), I've been
locking myself down until I think it's safe to go out again. To alleviate fear
and stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages"
get-together on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some
of my brief thoughts.

---

Hooray-oomph-ray!

![hooray](/img/posts/2020/08/15/morning_pages.jpg)

---

I slept really late last night; usually I go to sleep around 1AM or so (which is
already really late when I wake up for work), but last night I slept around
3:15AM. I think I slept late because I brought my laptop upstairs to watch
"Parks and Rec" and didn't want to put it down. Everything seems like it's
floating. Or maybe I'm floating. I'll probably take a midday nap.

I think I organized a birthday party for two friends yesterday for the first
time! I consider this a big deal because I'm usually wayyy too lazy to do
anything for others. But they're good friends, they threw parties for me back in
college, medical students during a pandemic, and I thought it'd be good to cheer
'em up. It was not bad, much lamer than I had thought because I forgot until the
day before, but had some good conversations and got to catch up with people I
hadn't seen for a few years.

Oh, and major discovery. So I had problems with my audio cable which made me
think there was something wrong with my Linux audio card (because it's the year
of the Linux desktop). Yesterday, when I brought my computer up to watch "Parks
and Rec" in bed, I accidentally bumped my audio cable and the volume went all
the day down. I searched the cable to see if there were any buttons I had hit
accidentally, and...there's an adjustable volume knob on the cable I hadn't seen
for the past five (?) months. When I turned the volume up all the way it was
unbearably loud. I'm so happy my audio card actually works and I'm just being
dumb.

I think I'll send some stickers to my friend who lives in France, along with a
personalised, handwritten letter. I brought up the topic of how my writing group
would be doing snail mail pen pals since we're spread all around the U.S.
nowadays, and she mentioned how it'd be cool to send sticker packs. I think it'd
be a great way to test what the status of USPS is like since [they're shutting
down vast swaths of the service to collapse it before the
election](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=24135668). It's also a great way
to put a human touch on relationships strained by the test of time and distance
and overall stress :smile:
