---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "Evening Pages: March 23rd, 2020"
date: "2020-03-23T20:52:14-04:00"
draft: false
---

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), the D.C.
metro region has been in a state of partial lockdown. To alleviate fear and
stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages" get-together
on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some of my brief
thoughts.

---

Today's been quite the productive day. I managed to work out one _extremely_
tricky bug that I finally figured out after like two weeks, I published [a blog
post on wanting](/posts/2020/03/23/wanted), and I reviewed [Sococo, a
collaborative virtual office](https://www.sococo.com/), for organizing an event.

One thing that's been bugging me of late is how well \$ZM has been doing. I made
[a blog post on my initial investment during its
IPO](/posts/2019/04/18/investing_zm_and_ipos/), and I provided a partial update
on how it was doing. After that update, the stock tanked until it went below its
IPO price, and I sold my remaining shares because I got jumpy. My thinking was,
"if the stock is tanking like this even before a recession comes, how far will
it drop when the recession actually happens? I'll just buy in again at the dip
during the next recession".

Turns out, this stock is doing just fine. As of tonight, \$ZM closed around
\$159.56, with a market cap of \$44.1B and a (pretty high) P/E ratio of
1,865.54. No doubt, the price will continue rising, because _literally the
entire world_ runs on Zoom now, and I'm guessing a whole bunch of companies will
be locked into its platform. Andddd it's too expensive for me to purchase
because I'm on sabbatical and have no income. So hooray for my awesome decision
making skills. Then again, this is probably one of the lesser expected
recessionary event out there; the whole thing happened in a matter of weeks with
no forewarning from any economic indicators. People had to shut down because
otherwise they'll die.

I'm kind of pissed off that [U.S. Senator Kelly Loeffler purchased _Citrix_
stock after getting the senators-only coronavirus
briefing](https://www.thedailybeast.com/sen-kelly-loeffler-dumped-millions-in-stock-after-coronavirus-briefing).
I'm like really? Citrix?? I would have immediately bought more Zoom stock. And
maybe issued PUT options against airlines. Or maybe even warned people that this
was coming and not try to profit off of the pain and suffering of others. Who
knows :man_shrugging: This is almost as embarrassing as Donald Trump trying to
sell the United States to Putin for one million dollars. I should be betrayed
for more money.

It does say something though to have such a curveball event, and such a black
swan event, come out of nowhere. I purchased the Incerto book set by Nassim
Taleb, and I'm slowly working my way through "The Black Swan", and hope to have
a book review out soon. I've never considered the harmful effects of knowing too
much, and having that prior blind you to what's possible. Pay close enough
attention to economic indicators, and you'll fail to pay attention to
epidemiologists and the deteriorating state of the federal government. Pay too
much attention to the front of the road, and fail to notice the semi-truck with
failed brakes coming behind you. Pay attention to the petty thief, and forget
about the computer virus keylogging your bank password. It just goes to show,
you can't worry your way out of a problem.

I'm thinking about writing a political crime horror novel. I'm not sure who
would buy it, and I'm kind of sure it might end any chance of me being
reasonably employed by anybody sane (because this story is horrifyingly insane),
but it'll be nice to get the fear out of my system about what's gonna happen or
not. Would be much healthier than just sitting on it for months or years at a
time.
