
import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
    author: "Ying Wang",
    date: "2020-09-22",
    title: "I hate everything.",
    description: "I hate everything.",
    categories: ['Personal'],
};

export const metadata = {
    title: article.title,
    description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
    <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);


Can I just say it? Things suck right now. I was going to be stoic and not bitch
and moan in public, but this is my blog and I just want to and so I'm doing it
anyways.

I was reading [this article on
Pocket](https://getpocket.com/explore/item/the-dying-russians?utm_source=pocket-newtab)
earlier today, which talks about how the death rate in Russia spiked after the
fall of the Soviet Union. He crosses off different progonses until he basically
up and says because the nation didn't value people's lives (Mongols -> Tsars ->
Russian Civil War -> Communist famines -> WWII -> wealth inequality), they just
started dying in droves. I don't think that's the first time I've heard of this.
[This article claims a lack of love empirically resulted in a 33% infant
mortality rate in
orphanages](https://theconversation.com/can-a-lack-of-love-be-deadly-58659l). At
the end of the day, we kind of do want, even need other people to love us.
Otherwise we go insane.

At first I thought this Russia thing was going to be a diatribe on politics,
because any mention of Russia in America brings up politics. And yeah sure that
bugs me to no end. But when I think about it some more, I guess I see Russia
today as the future for not just here but a lot of places. I think in years
past, we could dream of ending up like Japan, a bunch of older people with not
enough young people to support them, but otherwise a gradual aging of the social
fabric tempered with friendly healthcare robots and conveyor belt sushi as we
all circle the drain of eternity. That seems quaint nowadays, and the future
looks a good deal spicier.

Maybe I'm just a little bitch and I need to man up, but I'm skeptical things are
that simplistic. Honestly other people _do_ have it worse off than I do. My
grandparents and parents lived through WWII in China (not a cakewalk), the Great
Leap Forward, the Cultural Revolution, Tiananmen Square, and they managed. And I
don't think I was ever able to "man up" in the conventional sense. I think it's
just the dichotomy between growing up amidst wealth and stability and then
having that turned on its head over the course of a few months. If I grew up in
[Norilsk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norilsk) (the most miserable city in the
world), I probably would have died a long time ago, but if I didn't I wouldn't
find the present state of affairs so miserable. The human mind gates pain, and
so you can replace the most painful experience with another more painful
experience and not that pain accumulated.

Maybe that's why misery is such an easy default state for me to be in. Why I
never furnished any of my apartments. Why I save so much of my paycheck instead
of spending it on experiences and material goods. It's not just because I'm
waiting for "the big one" (which I guess is this slow burn starting with 2020),
but also because I figured you can't really miss what you've never had. Even if
America became fascist and my neighbors reported me for being Asian and took all
the money in my bank account, I don't think I'd be more broken than I am right
now. Just add it on the pile of bad stuff that happens, you know? That and the
concentration camp nonsense. Have a high level of pain tolerance and you can do
anything.

Now that's just the problem with this approach, it's always _can_, not _will_ or
_had_. You can't prove that winning gold at the suffering Olympics results in or
is even correlated with a better future. That comes from hard work and focus,
not to mention a good deal of luck. I guess that's the conflict in me when
thinking about leaving the country and starting a new life somewhere else.
Suffering doesn't really pay off. Whether it comes to staying in an
unsatisfactory job or in a country that might not like you in a specific way
very soon, you have to be selfish and mercenary if you want to live a good life,
because nobody's going to care about you as much as you do, and that just
doesn't fit with my identity structure. I don't like seeing myself as somebody
who runs away from his problems. Maybe that's the problem I should be tackling.

---

Well, I think I finished my bitching and moaning for today. It does feel kinda
nice to be able to scream into the void until my voice (or my fingertips) are
numb and hoarse. I wonder what is in my control.

- Going to bed earlier: I think I've been sleeping around 2:00AM to 3:00AM most
  of...this year. And I've been getting out of bed pretty late for most
  of...this year. I think the only times I've gotten up before 8:00AM was when
  this current job started, and even now I'm fading during the days I'm not
  working.

- Exercising: I walk about an hour or so every day, about 3 miles or so, but
  it's a far cry from exercising at the gym earlier this year and the 5 miles of
  walking I did back in Virginia (even during the pandemic). I just measured
  myself for the first time in two, three months. I weigh 180 pounds. I was 155
  pounds back in June. No wonder I feel so lethargic and out of shape.

- Just...having my freedom back. Parent's place is nice for the pandemic but
  staying two or three months was just so bad for my mental well-being. I'm
  looking forward to going back to Virginia.

- Writing on my professional blog regularly. I think I stopped the practice of
  sending out weekly updates when my job had started, and I stopped sending out
  email notifications to people once I realized TinyDev was in the shitter. I
  need to make progress on this front, especially if I'm committing to coding on
  the side regularly.

It kind of sucks not be able to look for hope in the outside world, so I guess
cat pictures have to do. That, and maybe lifting some weights.
