---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "Crises"
date: "2019-01-19T10:18:55-05:00"
draft: false
---

> **"The healthy wear a crown that only the sick can see."**
>
> Indian proverb

During the summer of my junior year in college, I worked in Atlanta and did a
lot of rock climbing. There was this massive rock climbing gym called [Stone
Summit](https://www.ssclimbing.com/stone-summit-atlanta/), and it had every bell
and whistle you could imagine. People lead climbed upside down on the ceiling
(great for ab strength), practiced bouldering, and did [speed
climbing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Climbing_competition#Speed_climbing),
all under one roof.

I regularly went with a number of older friends I met through another meetup,
and when we weren't belaying each other, we would go over to the bouldering
section and boulder. One day I checked other parts of the gym while they
continued to boulder, and discovered a second floor where people without
partners could climb. You strapped yourself into this thing called an
[autobelayer](https://headrushtech.com/trublue-auto-belay/), and when you wanted
to come down from the wall, you simply *let go* from the wall, and the
autobelayer would lower you down gently.

I was practicing this one route over and over again by myself on this particular
wall one day, when I noticed something rather peculiar.

On this one run, I forgot to strap myself into the autobelayer.

![haha im in danger](/img/posts/2019/01/19/crises_1.gif)

I was at least one story up from the ground, and unlike the bouldering site,
this particular climbing area didn't have the really nice, soft mats where you
can fall on (because you strapped yourself in, right?) -- and there was a short
balcony off to the side where you can see the rest of the gym, so in my mind's
eye I was at least *two* stories up from where I was supposed to be. If I fell
down, I would at least sprain my ankle, and quite possibly break something that
isn't supposed to break.

The funny thing is, *I wasn't afraid*. This isn't a
[r/iamverybadass](https://www.reddit.com/r/iamverybadass/) vibe I'm going for; I
really just wasn't afraid. In fact I was surprised at how calm I remained. It
might be because I had practiced this route to death, or that the route just
wasn't very hard, or that I had climbed four or five stories up on the other
walls and I just got used to being high up. But I just climbed back down and
didn't say anything to anybody. I don't think anybody else even noticed.

__________

I thought of this recently while at work, or really my brain just hit me with
this like a bolt out of the blue. These days, I suffer a great deal from
[impostor syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome), with a
constant feeling I'm being left further and further behind my peers. There are
people two or three years older than me, or younger than me, worth tens or
hundreds of millions of dollars, all self-made -- and I'm sitting here counting
my pennies hoping I won't get robbed from again. I worry about the time I spend
every day and whether whatever I spent time on was worth it, and whether I will
regret it. I wonder what [the world will be like in a few
decades](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dystopia) and wonder whether I am ready
for it, and if I'm not, why I'm acting relatively nonchalant about it. When I
get the chance to step back and look, it's pretty crazy -- I have a decent job,
a good manager, and I live in one of the only cities in North America to be
covered with active anti-aircraft missile batteries. What exactly *do* I have to
worry about?

After thinking about, I realized a common theme tied together many of my
happiest memories: *they came about in moments of crises*. There was one thing
that I was worried about in the moment -- a singularly detestable boss, a plan
that needed to be executed. If that crisis wasn't addressed, I would suffer
greatly; I would stay alone at a company I hated, or an organization would fail.
*Nothing else mattered in that moment; if I solved the crisis, I would genuinely
feel like I did something meaningful with that time*.

I think this is why when there isn't a crisis, I want to create crises for
myself. I like being on the high, because the highs are memorable and the lows,
however destructive, are forgotten about. I oftentimes set myself up for
failure, since the crisis -- and the high -- comes right before the failure.
That's what makes it exciting!

Alas, it's a drug, and like all drugs, there's a price to pay. The high comes
because I use up my reserve strength to keep myself together -- when it runs
out, I generally fall into pieces, because there's no strength left. *Hey buddy,
it's cool now, you can let go*. Like a freakin' siren call, except this one is
coming from inside you, so you can't turn it off. The tragedy is it's true. I
have to let go because crises exhaust as crises do, and with great highs come
great lows. You can't have something so valuable and so sinful without paying
for it.

I think if I understand this aspect of myself, I can treat it better. You can't
fight an enemy you don't acknowledge exists, much less recognize the gravity of.
Yes, crises exist, and some of them are so well tailored to our individual and
collective apathies that we cannot muster the strength to fight it ([the rat
race](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hlMAKpxN8N0), or [global
warming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_warming)). But these are rare, and
the solution is usually a marathon of sorts than a sprint. Other crises exist
only in the mind, and when shared, or discovered, they can be purged of. Truths
like ["people aren't against you, they are for
themselves"](https://lifehacker.com/5913246/people-arent-against-you-they-are-for-themselves),
or ["you'll worry less about what people think of you when you realize how
seldom they do"](https://quoteinvestigator.com/2014/09/09/worry-less/) help keep
things in perspective, a mildly effective mental balm.

In my mind, I find myself stuck to a wall, no autobelayer, and having to trust
that if I let go, I won't sprain my ankle. Letting go of the wall is hard. Up
until this point, sticking to it is the only thing you've ever known. But a
better future lays elsewhere.

Right now I think I'm convinced letting go is the best option. Now if only I can
pry my fingers away...
