import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2020-03-19",
  title: "Morning Pages, March 19th, 2020",
  description: "Morning Pages, March 19th, 2020",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), the D.C.
metro region has been in a state of partial lockdown. To alleviate fear and
stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages" get-together
on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some of my brief
thoughts.

---

I think things have definitely shifted in just the past week or two
economically. I started off this sabbatical thinking that I'll just go to June
or July to work on my own stuff, because I need the time. I still think I need
the time, but I'm not sure if the present economic pressure may change things.
I've never been through a recession out in the real world before.

I think one comforting thing is how there's a lot of people in the same boat as
I am, and how everybody will be screwed if this lasts for more than a few weeks,
which I think is almost certain, since it will likely take a year in order to
create and distribute enough vaccine. People mentioned online about how hard
millenials have it, but others have mentioned the "greatest generation" and how
they survived the Spanish Flu, the Great Depression, and WWII, so it's not like
this is completely new for all people. Maybe it'll make other alternatives to a
job, such as starting my own thing, or maybe going to grad school, more
appealing options.

I stayed inside all of yesterday, and got a good deal of cabin fever. Also
locked up my phone for all of yesterday, and went pretty stir crazy because it
kept buzzing for two hours until it ran out of battery. Lights went out four
times too. But in general, things could be better and they could be worse.

I still need to adjust my sleep schedule. I didn't manage to make it to the
7:00AM meeting, and I was late to this meeting too, which is pretty embarrassing
because it's virtual and all I need to do is to crawl to my computer. I dialed
the time I should be going to bed earlier by one hour and hopefully that will
help things.

I've developed one habit, where I take a picture of myself and send it to
somebody showing I'm ready for the day, and say to the mirror "I live in the
best of all possible worlds. Everything I do today, I choose to do". That helps
me get in the right mindset.
