---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "Evening Pages: October 5th, 2020"
date: "2020-10-05T23:10:58Z"
draft: false
---

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), I've been
locking myself down until I think it's safe to go out again. To alleviate fear
and stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages"
get-together on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some
of my brief thoughts.

---

I've been watching so many babies and kittens/puppies playing together videos
that I lost track of them. Instead, here's an uplifting image to keep you (us)
going during the hard days.

![doggo](/img/posts/2020/10/05/evening_pages.jpg)

---

I think the President will die this week. The thought just came today (as
developments kind of are taking place day-by-day, or rather hour-by-hour). I
don't think I've been so sure of something in my life before. It's a very
unusual feeling.

I was thinking about shorting a market index and then maybe making some money
off the potential instability (recorded here in case, just to prove this isn't
retroactively decided), but I don't like the idea of profiting off of suffering
(which is why I don't invest in fossil fuel companies or military-industrial
companies), and I don't like the idea of temporal investments (I like investing
based on principles and over the long-term, which essentially cuts out shorting
the market because there's only so much you can short).

On one hand, I would very much like the guy to do me a solid if he dies,
partially because I lost out on $ZM (I divested all my shares, half @ $110 and
half @ $62 for a gain of like $1000 or so, now it's at $480 and I'm kicking
myself), and partially to have some good news amidst all the bad news. On the
other hand, I think it's healthier as a society if Presidents don't die in
office (especially one where many find so interesting). I kind of hate how I'm
still the goody two-shoes until the end, but I think the tradeoff would involve
surrendering my identity and I don't want to do that.

---

On a completely related note, I kind of hate how addicted I am to news these
days. It _really_ doesn't affect me how the health of some 74-year-old a few
miles away is doing, and it takes at least a few weeks or months for a country
to collapse, so it's not like I won't be able to find out about major things
(like I need to flee the country now now now or stock up on food for six months)
sooner or later. I might make a run to Trader Joe's to stock up on some canned /
preserved food (...again...) in case of civil unrest. But having other people
control me like this really sucks, and it sucks because it's really me
controlling me. I still like being on the grid, but I lack the ability to not
let it get to me.

I also need to buy some fresh veggies, I'm running out already and I went
through like four bags of bok choy in a week.

What I do _need_ to do is practice ukelele, and get my ukelele progress website
up and running, and start my coding assignment project, and the other things
that will get me where I want to go in life, and stop feeding habits that make
me feel powerless.
