---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "What If."
date: "2020-07-13T21:34:32-04:00"
draft: true
---

What if I extended my sabbatical?

__________

This question doesn't follow me around like a ghost. But it does pop into my
head every so often. Like, if I made my sabbatical a year and some change,
taking me to January or February 2021, instead of ending it in July 2020.

The biggest fear for me is physical safety during this pandemic. There are some
larger companies I've talked to that mentioned they're following state
guidelines on when to re-open. Like, when the state says, the state should
re-open, the company will re-open.

Like, Florida and Walt Disney World.

![disney](/img/posts/2020/07/13/what_if.png)

A few impolite words about Florida's state government aside, states are
re-opening not because public health guidelines have recommended it, but because
the state treasuries are running dry. That's not a Florida-specific concern,
that's a concern shared by every state, assuming no federal help is coming (a
pretty safe bet at this point). Florida's just especially dependent on things
like tourism for its tax revenue, so it needs lots of people interacting and
physically spending money vs. say California which is a bit more
service-oriented.

That's not mentioning how the pandemic will likely "ping-pong" between states
since there is no federal coordination and states will reopen if only to gasp a
breath, and cause waves of infections and shutdowns across the country long
after this year. "Onsite" jobs are still more plentiful than "remote" jobs, so
there's the sword of Damocles of being made to go back into the office.

That's not even mentioning any amount of recklessness, carelessness, or
maliciousness on the part of manager/employee relations (which can't really be
discounted, considering how "essential" workers have been treated). I've heard
stories on the Internet of middle managers making software engineers go back to
the office, if only so they have somebody to mind, because you can't justify
your paycheck and your position at home. The only people who are happy with that
arrangement are C-suite executives who care about getting stuff done, and grunt
workers...who care about getting stuff done. Not to mention the liability
implications if and when you do get sick. I would expect I would stop being a
great "culture fit" at a company if I got cancer, or this COVID-19 thing pretty
strongly, which would then take away my health insurance and result in a
lifetime of debt and inextricable physical / financial suffering.

__________

Of course, I think I'll probably just "walk" if a company made me go back into
the office now. But I don't think it's unreasonable for a company to make us go
back into the office when a vaccine is ready. I'd probably wait a few months
before taking the vaccine, and see what the negative side effects might be on
the first cohort of the population...because the FDA has likely been gutted like
everything else and the vaccine might be rushed. Not to mention initial doses of
the vaccine might not be available to lower socio-economic classes at all. Not
to mention the insane costs of the vaccine passed down from the manufacturer to
the patient (moi), since a government subsidy is unlikely. I don't expect mercy,
but I do expect the freedom of action to defend myself and mine.

I think people are also hoping that there will be a change of administration
next January. I'd be pleased if that occurred, because it may be the beginning
of the end for this response to the virus, but I'm not holding my breath. 40% of
the country still supports the incumbent administration. That's a high enough
ceiling to obfuscate the results, enough to prevent the military from taking any
decisive action. By my guesstimate, we need 2 million total counted dead in
order to be on the same page as a country (might not even be enough, maybe 20
million total dead? How many result in mass graves or unburied bodies on every
street corner?), we'll see if 250,000 by November or so is enough to change
people's minds. If not, we're probably looking to extend the virus to 2022, and
honestly probably further.

As an aside, I think the situation is bad given America's long history of
relatively decent leadership, but historically I think it's just regressing back
to the mean. During the Plague of Justinian, people had to pay taxes for their
dead family members, and that to finance a war overseas for the glory of the
Byzantine emperor, not for some cure or anything benefiting people.

__________

So I don't expect too much from other people, because frankly I don't control
them. They are free to do as they wish. What I'm concerned about is what I'm
going to do with myself.

I think the initial set of fears I had looooong before this virus came into
being -- that there's a limited window in which to move between socioeconomic
classes before it closes forever, that living in this country as a not-rich
person would be tempting a fate worse than death, and that one day soon it might
be safer to live here than other places if the Republic falls and powerful
intersts start looking for external enemies to scapegoat (like the remaining
free countries in the world) -- has partially manifested itself during this
pandemic. Like maybe 1% of the world I've envisioned has come to life, and the
remaining 99% has yet to executed on. But seeing the future and being able to do
something about it are two different things.

I'd like to be wealthy, or have multiple income sources, so that I'll never need
to worry about health insurance. And to get that, I need capital. I need to
accumulate capital. And I don't have any at the moment.

__________

Not sure if I'm overly complaining, or if I'm just being dramatic, or if
everything is kind of playing out the way I had foreseen. But I need to do
*something* in order to change up my BATNA. I'm sick and tired of being a loser.
I'm tired, and I want things to change.

But how do I get there?
