---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "Morning Pages: January 7th, 2021"
date: "2021-01-07T08:39:27-05:00"
draft: false
---

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), the D.C.
metro region has been in a state of lockdown. To alleviate fear and stress, my
writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages" get-together on Zoom in
order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some of my brief thoughts.

__________

So um. Yeah. I did not get much sleep yesterday.

![headlines](/img/posts/2021/01/07/headlines.png)

![curfew](/img/posts/2021/01/07/ios_1.png)

![lyft](/img/posts/2021/01/07/ios_2.png)

Lots of "CONFIRM RECEIPT OF CURFEW ORDER FROM GOVERNOR NORTHNAM" blaring in
email, phone, phone emergency alert, and a lot of sirens going off from first
responders. Also apparently when Trump refused to mobilize the D.C. National
Guard to defend Congress our VA governor Northam sent the VA National Guard to
help out lil bro DC. I'm pretty happy I pay my VA state taxes.

O.O But also we need statehood for D.C. O.O

***STATEHOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOODDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD***

__________

So I slept a bit later than I would have liked because news addiction
(apparently alot of the rioters were staying at hotels in Arlington, so maybe a
couple miles from where I was). Also I couldn't buy groceries yesterday or go
outside and stuff.

But mostly I couldn't sleep because I drank a liter of almond milk at 3AM in the
morning. So I was in the bathroom between something like 4-5AM just pooping.
Maybe the poached eggs I made just weren't very fresh anymore, or it's not a
great idea to mix almond milk and poached eggs together, or maybe just don't eat
late, or maybe having one layer of blankets wasn't enough. But yeah, that and
getting up for morning pages I did not get much rest. Somehow my bad decisions
eclipse the world's bad decisions during impact for me.

I feel pretty awake though. I wonder whether this is latent caffeine in my
system, or whether it's adrenaline like somebody might come and break into my
apartment now for whatever reason. Maybe it's sympathetic freaking out because
my coworkers in the city are uh...fleeing the city or something because the
rioters are actually outside their place vs. not anywhere close to mine. Or
maybe it's because I operate better in crisis than in...peacetime...for lack of
a better phrase.

I think given how I snapped mentally yesterday I requested a mental break day
off from my manager on short notice, so hopefully that goes through. Maybe then
I can at least finish some personal work (like chores and shit), also I need to
run to the grocery store in case they continue bombing and we go on full
lockdown for the next two weeks (which is...maybe not bad because of the
pandemic we should be on lockdown anyways).

Also thinking about the future. I think George W. Bush killed around 4,000
Americans through bad policy (Iraq War), Donald Trump killed around 400,000
Americans by the time he leaves office and the dust settles (COVID-19 pandemic),
so will the next Republican president kill 40,000,000 Americans if this trend
keeps going on? People keep talking about how one of the existing senators is
smart enough in order to destroy our democracy and seize power in a
dictatorship, and I'm sitting over here wondering whether we're gonna be that
lucky to have somebody that competent.

Man the headlines in the future are gonna be insane.

> Good morning, this is BBC Channel 8 and today is January 20th, 2025.
> President-elect Alex Jones is sworn in as the nation's 47th President. Jones,
> famous for publicizing the Sandy Hook conspiracy theory, takes office after a
> wide mass suicide across the federal government...
