import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2019-12-31",
  title: "Year in Review: Resolutions",
  description: "Year in Review: Resolutions",
  categories: ["Personal"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

At the beginning of this year, I made a set of [New Year's
Resolutions](/posts/2019/01/01/new_years_resolutions) that I thought were
achieveable and meaningful. So let's take a stroll down memory lane and see how
I did!

(I'm using this weird paragraph format instead of the list format because I
recently upgraded to a newer version of [**`hugo`**](https://gohugo.io), the
static website generator tool, and some of the markdown parsing is quite
different.)

**The "soft" resolutions**:

**<span style="color:orange">Establish more feedback loops for all the
activities I want to get better at (PARTIALLY MEETS EXPECTATIONS)</span>**: So I
used this app called [Productive](http://productiveapp.io/) and it worked pretty
well for the most part in keeping me on track in terms of what habits I should
be doing every single day, which formed most of the feedback loop mechanisms I
established. There were a number of issues with doing things this way:

**Technical issues with the app itself**: I talked about this in my blog post
about [frustration management](/posts/2019/11/18/frustration_management), but
the app keeps crashing and losing my data, and doesn't handle backend migrations
very well at all (e.g. some habits just get disconnected and don't work).
Lately, they also implemented a _very_ significant and disorienting UI change,
which (IMHO) significantly decreased UX likability.

I can't handle this bullshit, especially for something as critical-path to my
daily productivity as habit tracking.

**The feedback loops are very forgiving**: I like how forgiving they are in the
beginning, and how you are able to add settings on, but I do wish there was a
hard expiry sometimes between morning / afternoon / evening habits. I do morning
habits in the evening sometimes, and sometimes I do habits the next day, which
isn't great for my productivity. I guess I am cheating myself, but I kind of
wish the app would help push me towards a healthier approach, even through tough
love.

**Sometimes I just don't give a shit**: This is probably the biggest problem;
some of the feedback loops I have I don't have a strong connection to. I got
started with habit tracking because of [that
robbery](/posts/2018/10/23/i_got_robbed_for_the_fifth_time), which pissed me off
to no end, and I keep track of my journals because of how much they helped me
climb out of a hole back in college. In contrast, I don't like myself w.r.t. how
much I exercise, but it's hard to form up the habit to do so, especially since
you lose progress the more infrequently you execute and therefore doesn't
compound nicely.

In order to improve, I first need to maintain an emotional connection to the
habits I actively track, so that I do them mindfully instead of mindless
obligation.

It might also help if I had a habit tracker that I could build my own
requirements for. I'm actively planning on having something out for this tied
into the [TinyDevCRM](https://tinydevcrm.com) project I'm building early next
year.

**<span style="color:red">Minimize the amount of time I regret spending (DOES
NOT MEET EXPECTATIONS)</span>**: I regretted spending probably the _vast_
majority of time this year. It **SUCKED**.

Things improved now that I decided to take a breather from career stuff (my
problems are now solely my fault, hooray!!), but it's not certain that this
wouldn't happen in the future when I return to the labor force. I need to do
_something_ in order to pace myself, because life truly is a marathon and not a
sprint.

**The "hard" resolutions**:

**<span style="color:green">Go on a date, tackling the fear of emotional
rejection (MEETS EXPECTATIONS)</span>**: I actually went on 5 dates this year
with three different people, in a 1 / 1 / 3 split. First date was pretty kooky.
I took her to a _really_ fancy French restaurant (where I was also kind of
rewarding myself for having gone on a date at all), and went off the rails
sideways. I learned that first dates generally shouldn't be done at fancy French
restaurants. Second date was at a bubble tea shop. Third date at a very nice
homey coffee bar that a friend recommended, and fourth and fifth dates at
fancier restaurants.

Ultimately, none of these panned out for me. My heart just wasn't in it, and I
didn't really know at the time whether I was going to relocate geographically.
The first two conversations were also kind of sideways and the third through
fifth didn't kick off since we didn't share a lot of the same interests. But I
feel better about asking people out (and getting rejected and ghosted along the
way), so that's a pretty big positive.

**<span style="color:red">Run one half marathon in the summer, tackling the fear
of being fat and resultant decreased mortality (DOES NOT MEET
EXPECTATIONS)</span>**: I signed up for a half marathon that started on 7AM on a
Sunday, didn't practice, and missed going. So. That was fun.

Honestly, I don't know how much direct correlation there is between running half
marathons and becoming less fat. I think a better approach to this is to
exercise in smaller amounts, _consistently_, and to eat healthy food
_consistently_. If that gets me 80% of the way there I think I would make that
tradeoff. Ultimately though, it has to be something I enjoy doing.

**<span style="color:orange">Become really good at making dumplings, and make a
lot of dumplings, targeting the fear of being incompetent in home economics
(PARTIALLY MEETS EXPECTATIONS)</span>**: I only made dumplings early on in the
year, at a friend's place where he very graciously lent out his space so we
could make dumplings together. We used my parent's recipe, and the result is as
follows:

[dumplings](/img/posts/2019/12/31/old_years_resolutions_review_1.jpg)

We used ground pork purchased from Trader Joe's instead of mincing the pork from
pork belly ourselves as my parents did. We worked together in parallel quite
well on different tasks involved in making the dumpling filling (mincing the
ginger / garlic / onions / celery, deveining the celery, aerating the dumpling
filling, etc.). This would be too much work for one person, given how we four
spent about six hours making enough dumplings for half a week.

One severe bottleneck was how dry the pre-made dumpling skins were; coming
straight out the package, they were extremely brittle and we could not fill up
each dumpling to satisfaction. Next time we will create our own dumpling skins
using freshly-made dough; it should be fairly simple and straightforward
compared to the stuffing, and if there is excess dough we can create noodles
from them. It is also easier to repair self-made dumpling skins since the dough
is so fresh; if it dries out, just add water and re-mix.

Our folding skills were satisfactory, in particular because these dumplings were
steamed rather than boiled assisting in retaining the integrity of the dumpling,
but they could use improvement.

Now that I know I can make dumplings, I'm looking forward to making more next
year.

**<span style="color:red">Lay the groundwork for and begin executing a plan for
financial independence, targeting the fear of running the rat race for the rest
of my life (DOES NOT MEET EXPECTATIONS)</span>**: I don't actually have a plan
around how this will work. I think a set of heuristics may work better instead.

**<span style="color:green">Go to PyCon 2019, tackling my fear of intellectual
incompetence (MEETS EXPECTATIONS)</span>**: So I [went to PyCon, and it was a
blast](/posts/2019/05/11/my_first_pycon). What I liked most about PyCon was
meeting all those great people, and seeing the variety of products that were on
display for software engineers. I'll definitely see if I can go to PyCon 2020,
especially since it is closer to where I'm based.

All in all, I think the feelings-based approach to resolutions went a lot better
than a set of arbitrary objectives. Since I actually cared about most of these
(or thought I cared about most of these), I went out and did them. Some of them
I didn't really care about, and they might be things I need to care about or
they might be things that are disposable.

I also read **19** books this year, [categorized here](/categories/books)! It's
a good deal less since I spent a lot of time earlier this year working on my
technical blog (and then got out of the habit of reading books regularly), but
still a good number. Let's see whether I can bump that back up to the 30s.
