import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2018-12-01",
  title: "Five Regrets of the Dying",
  description: "Five Regrets of the Dying",
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

**From [Collective
Evolution](https://www.collective-evolution.com/2013/04/27/the-top-5-regrets-of-the-dying/):**

A pallative nurse recorded the most common regrets of the dying and put her
findings into a book called [_"The Top Five Regrets of the
Dying"_](http://www.amazon.co.uk/The-Top-Five-Regrets-Dying/dp/1848509995/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1367096226&sr=8-1&keywords=top+regrets+of+the+dying).
It's not surprising to see what made the list, as they are all things that touch
each of our lives as we struggle to pay attention to and make time for the
things we truly love. Below is the list of each regret along with an excerpt
from the book.

I'd like to address one thing before we get to this list, however. It's
important to remember that, regardless of what stage we are at in life, regret
does not serve us. It leads to nothing but suffering, and when we indulge in it,
we allow the past to dictate how we feel about the present. Rather than giving
in to regret, we can use the past as a reference point to understand what
adjustments we would like to make moving forward. The adjustments do not have to
come out of a place of pain, sorrow, or judgment, but rather a choice to do
things differently. We are learning all the time, and we can very quickly slow
that learning process down by getting stuck in feelings of remorse. When it
comes to making changes, be at peace with the past and remember that each moment
is a new choice.

----------

**"I wish I had the courage to live a life true to myself, not the life others
expected of me."**

This was the most common regret of all. When people realize that their life is
almost over and look back clearly on it, it is easy to see how many dreams have
gone unfulfilled. Most people had not honored even a half of their dreams and
had to die knowing that it was due to choices they had made, or not made. Health
brings a freedom very few realize, until they no longer have it.

----------

**"I wish I hadn't worked so hard."**

This came from every male patient that I nursed. They missed their children's
youth and their partner's companionship. Women also spoke of this regret, but as
most were from an older generation, many of the female patients had not been
breadwinners. All of the men I nursed deeply regretted spending so much of their
lives on the treadmill of a work existence.

----------

**"I wish I had the courage to express my feelings."**

Many people suppressed their feelings in order to keep peace with others. As a
result, they settled for a mediocre existence and never became who they were
truly capable of becoming. Many developed illnesses relating to the bitterness
and resentment they carried as a result.

----------

**"I wish I had stayed in touch with my friends."**

Often they would not truly realize the full benefits of old friends until their
dying weeks and it was not always possible to track them down. Many had become
so caught up in their own lives that they had let golden friendships slip by
over the years. There were many deep regrets about not giving friendships the
time and effort that they deserved. Everyone misses their friends when they are
dying.

----------

**"I wish that I had let myself be happier."**

This is a surprisingly common one. Many did not realize until the end that
happiness is a choice. They had stayed stuck in old patterns and habits. The
so-called 'comfort' of familiarity overflowed into their emotions, as well as
their physical lives. Fear of change had them pretending to others, and to
themselves, that they were content, when deep within, they longed to laugh
properly and have silliness in their life again.
