---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "Evening Pages: November 16th, 2020"
date: "2020-11-16T20:24:15-05:00"
draft: false
---

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), I've been
locking myself down until I think it's safe to go out again. To alleviate fear
and stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages"
get-together on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some
of my brief thoughts.

---

When you're little and you can stretch like this:

![catto](/img/posts/2020/11/16/evening_pages.webp)

Man. Those were the days.

---

So apparently [President Trump is withdrawing all U.S. troops from Afghanistan
by
Christmas](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/13/us/politics/trump-afghanistan-troops.html).
Hmm. Wonder why [the guy who invited the Taliban to Camp David on the
anniversary of 9/11](https://outline.com/vgSVcW) and who [lied about having the
tallest tower in NYC before the WTC dust even
settled](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K88DcY-MMUY) and who [is threatening to
withhold vaccines from New
York](https://www.politico.com/video/2020/11/13/trump-says-new-york-state-wont-get-first-batch-of-vaccines-due-to-governor-cuomo-100061)
might want a destabilized Afghanistan with the Taliban in power. Man, the 9/11
attacks next year will really suck. Like [the Folsom Dam
disaster](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yjfrJzdx7DA), it will have been
preventable.

Kind of reminds me of
[Honorius](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honorius_(emperor)>) and [Roman
Brittania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/End_of_Roman_rule_in_Britain) being
kicked out of the Roman Empire because of one guy. I wish we at least had an
Augustus before our Honorius (or maybe a Nerva, Nerva seemed pretty cool).

All jokes aside (and to be clear, we're laughing because otherwise we'd be
crying), I did request more information about local emergency response
organizations on a community level. Arlington County, site of the Pentagon
attacks during 9/11, has this thing called an "Community Emergency Response
Team" (CERT), where if first responders are overwhelmed, you're activated and
thrown into the maelstrom. I think it speaks to a large truth: most governmental
stuff happens at the local level, big-picture stuff is really abstract and
people don't see it anyways. Not sure when I'd be hearing back from them though.

---

In other news, I think my investment (if you can call it that) into writing
publicly is paying some amount of dividends. I'm getting a very very tiny
trickle of people who want me to try out their latest software framework, or
review a book, or other stuff. I'm mostly happy about free books, because it's
like free money. Maybe one day I'll be big enough to get a free steak, though
that probably won't happen unless `cooking.yingw787.com` takes off and doesn't
suck.
