---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "The Tragedy of Max Planck the Smart, or Why Social Justice Matters to the Nonaligned"
date: "2020-06-13T12:42:24-04:00"
draft: false
---

Most people know [Max Planck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Max_Planck) as the
scientist, the guy who did some quantum bullshit. I think it's on the Wikipedia
page, I'm just too lazy to look it up. If it was important to me, I would have
scrolled more on the page. Besides, other people have beaten that horse already.

You may find my unholy lack of respect for the man disturbing, especially for
somebody who helped make my field and career possible. That's the point. Max
Planck was, in many of the most important things in life, ***an utter
failure***.

__________

Max Planck worked hard and endured, like a good citizen. When his wife Marie
died, Max Planck endured. When his oldest child Karl was killed in World War I
during the Battle of Verdun, Max Planck endured. When his daughter Grete died in
childbirth, Max Planck endured. When his other daughter Emma died in childbirth
(after re-marrying her sister's widow), Max Planck endured.

You might be thinking that this is a lot for one man to endure, and it is.
Weaker men than Max Planck would strain and break under the stress. Problem is,
if you don't strain and break, you start getting used to the suffering, and it
cripples your ability to respond to bad situations, especially those of a Black
Swan nature. You become *too* Stoic, *too* accomodating. You've survived this,
so you'll survive that, right?

Melvil Dewey once said "when a tree ceases to grow, it begins to rot". And so it
did with Max Planck, who refused to change his worldview based on new and
evolving situations.

At this point, Max Planck had two surviving sons, Erwin and Hermann, two
grandchildren, and had re-married. He still had a family to take care of.

Then the Nazis came.

Max Planck didn't run, didn't fight, but endured and worked hard. When the Nazis
fired Jewish professors, Max Planck stayed silent. When other scientists
considered fleeing, Max Planck persuaded them to stay and invest in Nazi
Germany. When the Nazis attacked Planck for teaching "Jewish science", Max
Planck resigned his posts like they told him to.

Max Planck endured, [like a good
citizen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boxer_(Animal_Farm)).

__________

The problem with being smart is that you surround yourself with smart people,
oftentimes people smarter than yourself. This is a problem because smart people
usually succeed, and therefore they think they get what they want if they work
for it. Not to mention how facts oftentimes have a liberal bias, as the only
constant is change.

For one. Erwin Planck, Max Planck's second-to-last surviving child, got himself
continually involved in politics and on Hitler's bad side, especially after the
Nazis killed his friends during the [Night of the Long
Knives](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Night_of_the_Long_Knives). After his
involvement in the [July 20th plot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/20_July_plot),
he was dragged before a kangaroo court and sentenced to death.

So as a Hail Mary, Max Planck wrote to Hitler pleading for his son's life.
Here's the letter, taken from [this secondary
source](https://grahamfarmelo.com/max-planck-letter-hitler-discovered/):

__________

![letter](/img/posts/2020/06/13/planck.jpg)

From the same secondary source, the translated letter reads:

>My Führer!
>
>I am most deeply shaken by the message that my son Erwin has been sentenced to
>death by the People’s Court.
>
>The acknowledgement for my achievements in service of our fatherland, which
>you, my Führer, have expressed towards me in repeated and most honouring way,
>makes me confident that you will lend your ear to an imploring 87-year old.
>
>As the gratitude of the German people for my life’s work, which has become an
>everlasting intellectual wealth of Germany, I am pleading for my son’s life.
>
>Max Planck

__________

What was Max Planck's mistake? Besides his entire response to the Nazis, by
pleading for his son's life on the basis of his reputation, Max Planck crossed a
fundamental rule of power. He assumed that *because of his past accomplishments,
he's somehow owed something by those in power he benefited*. By expending
himself in his work, Planck actually gave away any negotiating lever he might
have had. If Hitler and the Nazis were rational (a questionable assumption under
the circumstances), they would have assumed if he's begging like this, he's
already tapped out in what he can deliver to Germany. Otherwise, why wouldn't he
mention it? Therefore, killing his son as a loose end wouldn't result in any
negative changes to German scientific output from Max Planck.

It would have made much more sense to lie, and say something like his draft
papers on $BLAH could benefit targeting systems of the
$FANCY_WEAPON_HITLER_LIKES, and that he will refuse to help the Nazis should
they lay a finger on his son. Then they may torture or kill him, but if they
did, they will lose out on an (imaginary) benefit to their own power in their
imagined future. This may make them hesitate, buying Planck some time to bribe
some guards or organize a larger effort amongst friends in high places to secure
a release. At least then, if he failed, he would know he did try everything.

You might also say that Max Planck lost his son the moment the Nazis came to
power. It was inevitable they would consolidate power, and it was inevitable
that free-thinking minds like those science requires would oppose them. The time
to speak out, to protest, had by that time long passed.

Erwin Planck was executed by hanging on January 23rd, 1945, the last surviving
child from his first marriage, and the last member of his original immediate
family. Max Planck died on October 4th, 1947, in the shattered ruins of his
homeland. He saw his house bombed and his papers lost, his bloodline decimated,
his remaining family left living under the mercy of conquerors (which in another
timeline may [not have been all that
merciful](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morgenthau_Plan)), and his will to live
ripped from his very soul from a life suffering without purpose.

You might say this is an unfair assessment of Max Planck's life. I'm not trying
to be fair. Max Planck came from an academic, solidly middle-class family, with
plenty of demonstrated intellectual horsepower, and ended up as I described.
Plenty of people saw what was coming, and prepared for it by tweaking their
principles (Einstein on pacifism, for instance).

But hey, we named a constant after Max Planck, so I'm sure that makes up for it.

__________

I don't rag on Max Planck for shits and giggles. Rather, I see myself in him.
Max Planck, like us, lived in interesting times, and he suffered for it by
standing on the wrong principles. His sheer intelligence, vaster than mine, just
goes to prove you can't dig your way out of these kinds of situations if you
don't change those principles. That's why paradigm shifts are useful. Learning
to operate in such a world keeps us unafraid of the dark, because only then we'd
be better at it than those who would plunge us there.

I like living in the U.S. because I like the idea of powerful people also being
fair. Americans are a fair people, we expect a fair deal, and we expect that
good things happen to those who try. That's not a common sentiment throughout
the world, especially in other powerful countries, and I think this idea is
worth preserving because it is exceptionally divine. Holding that idea high
takes constant work, because freedom isn't free. So sometimes, I find it useful
to stare into the abyss and wonder what can be.

I don't see the past in our present tragedies, I see the future. When I see
Hispanic children tossed into concentration camps (or camps where they're
concentrated), I don't see the past struggles of Japanese-American internment. I
see my children's fate if and when a conventional war breaks out between the
U.S. and China. When I see [ammunition dumps stockpiled in the nation's capital
to be used on
protesters](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/us/politics/national-guard-protests.html),
I don't see June 4th, I see the Lafayette Square massacre and its aftermath.
When I see powerful people skirting the law, I don't see a return to federal
government before the post-Watergate reforms, I see my future business crumbling
under a need to pay protection money and explicit bribes on top of my taxes and
"campaign contributions". Because human nature is constant, everywhere, through
all time. And everything in our world, even peace, prosperity, truth, comes to
an end.

__________

You might be asking why given such a nihilistic worldview, I bother getting up
in the morning. Maybe this joke can help:

> A mathematician and an engineer go into a bar and see a beautiful woman. The
> woman says, "You may approach, but you can only go half the distance between
> you and me each time."
>
> The mathematician gives up immediately. "I'll never reach her."
>
> The engineer takes off. "I'll get close enough."

Just because something's impossible, doesn't mean it's not worth doing. Duct
tape, baling wire, and chewing gum might not be a perfect solution to problems,
but they do a good enough job. Every veteran programmer knows that. So that's
why it's useful to learn how to kick cans down the road, and move mountains with
a lonesome bucket and shovel. If staying where you are isn't an option, *and it
isn't*, why not get up and do something about it?
