---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "Morning Pages: November 28th, 2020"
date: "2020-11-28T08:39:33-05:00"
draft: false
---

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), I've been
locking myself down until I think it's safe to go out again. To alleviate fear
and stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages"
get-together on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some
of my brief thoughts.

---

Some doggos are just copy machines for more doggos :smile:

![doggos](/img/posts/2020/11/28/morning_pages.jpg)

Such copy. Much wow.

---

Yesterday, I walked all the way over to the writer's salon, for the first time
in around six months or so. There's a cute sign on the outside now! Nobody was
there so I couldn't rest my feet there, but it was good to know that I could
still walk that far.

Kind of. I think I ran out of breath when walking back to Georgetown and then
stepped into (collapsed somewhat) in the Amazon Books, where I kind of read a
book for an hour until they closed (and to be honest had the traffic be a little
lighter). I think it's the longest time I've been in a "foreign" place that's
not home since this whole thing started. Wondering how many spores or whatever
I've been breathing in.

I think I've been on a bit of a buying spree recently, but I've been able to get
a certain number of deals that I think will make the purchases worth it.

My FitBit has something going on with its clock, but it can't keep time anymore
for some reason, it's always a few hours behind whenever it isn't synced, which
makes it difficult to track steps during the day. It also has a difficult time
syncing and uploading data. So it's kind of like just a piece of plastic and
metal around my wrist now. I purchased an Apple Watch Series 5, with GPS and
cellular support, 40mm version, from the Amazon Renewed store (where things are
pre-owned). Between the pre-owned nature of the device, and the fact that it's
not top-of-line right now, I managed to shave around $200 from the original $500
retail price. I think it's pretty good.

My bicycle hasn't really been used since I took it back into my apartment late
last year, and that's because it's pretty inconvenient to store and very heavy
to get up the stairs. Since it is so heavy, and since I am so fat now, it's hard
to get up to speed / up hills too. So I also purchased a Carbo Model X, a
belt-driven, folding, carbon-fiber electric bike for when I commute into D.C.
for work next year. It's only 28 pounds including the battery, and Panasonic
18650 cells (same ones used on the OG Teslas) are packed into the seat
