import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
  author: "Ying Wang",
  date: "2018-06-17",
  title:
    'Book Review: "The Game: Penetrating the Society of Pickup Artists", by Neil Strauss',
  description:
    'Book Review: "The Game: Penetrating the Society of Pickup Artists", by Neil Strauss',
  categories: ["Books"],
};

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
  <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);

> **Rapport equals trust plus comfort.**
>
> From "The Game" (William Murrow / HarperCollinsPublishers, 2005, Page 315), by
> Neil Strauss

This is the last unread book of the "relationships" section that I had purchased
way back late last year, when mastering dating seemed a more significant
priority than today. An intriguing read, "The Game" details a time in Neil's
(nicknamed "Style") life when he joined a society of pickup artists in a
desparate attempt to get into a relationship. What he ended up discovering about
the community, in a sense, freed him from it.

The book can almost be described as living in Neil's friend Dustin's shadow. To
Neil, Dustin was the go-getter, the hustler, the guy who always got the girl in
the end. After Neil became "Style" the pick-up artist and became highly ranked
in the pick-up game, he discovers that Dustin joined a "yeshiva", or a kind of
Jewish monastery, as picking up girls didn't bring him satisfaction anymore.
Neil initially brushes this off, but things get worse and worse in the pickup
community and Neil eventually leaves. His girlfriend at the end of the book,
Lisa, explicitly tells him she would have liked him even if he wasn't a pick-up
artist. Neil and Dustin are like sine and cosine waves, following the same life
trajectories some amount of time apart.

"The Game" provides an interesting lesson in psycology, especially with regards
to two characters, Katya and Tyler Durden. Katya is originally the girlfriend of
Neil's mentor, "Mystery". With a falling-out, Katya then dated "Herbal", who is
"Mystery"'s and Neil's housemate. Katya's presence and personality precipitated
"Mystery"'s meltdown, which in addition to the meltdown he had in Toronto,
lessened his legitimacy in Neil's eyes and ended up getting him censured in his
house.

While Neil states that if Katya and "Mystery" never met, the pickup artist
community called "Project Hollywood" might still be ongoing, he also states it
may have been doomed from the start due to the machinations of "Tyler Durden", a
pickup artist who doesn't pick up girls but rather sells to wannabe pickup
artists. Tyler organizes a coup of sorts against Neil and "Mystery" after Neil
kissed Tyler's pickup one time. "Mystery" and Neil are isolated and divided
against the rest of the house, controlled by "Tyler Durden" and his subordinate,
"Papa".

Very "Lord of the Flies", and Neil says as much in the book too.

Ultimately, what Neil describes pickup as appears to be a simple assortment of
character traits:

- Confidence: being able to approach a woman and say "hi", being able to face
  her boyfriend or any other suitors down, etc.

- Skills (card/magic tricks, palm reading, etc.), or something to say after you
  say "hi"

- Social awareness

- Some amount of genuine likability, if you're not Casanova and want to continue
  a relationship

- The ability to lose the girl and still wake up before noon the next day
  ***

I don't exactly regret purchasing this book, but this is probably the least
relevant book I've read about relationships thus far. The audience is different
(I'm too proud to play pickup), the reward is different (party/clubbing girls,
which are not my type), and the methodology is different (I'm pretty
traditionalist and boring).

I can't help but wonder whether the rising [incel
community](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=incel) may be related
to the pickup community, a number of automatons who, after paying some guy
thousands of dollars to learn how to pick up girls and fail because they're
automatons, believe that all women are evil or don't like them and that they are
entitled to sex. I can see the slippery slope after reading this book: Neil
found that the demand to learn pickup was fairly inelastic, and Mystery charged
$1500 per person per workshop. Neil's description of "Tyler Durden" and his
business also seemed much like [Robert Kiyosaki's methodology of self-help
getting rich books](http://www.richdad.com/); if it's not bad advice (which it
might well be), it's advice catered to those with deaf ears.

It's a dangerous slope to be on if you're at any point emotionally unsteady
(Mystery's experience as described by Neil being Exhibit A), which is why I
myself will avoid this and these people.
