---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "Afternoon Pages: June 27th, 2020"
date: "2020-06-27T15:11:55-04:00"
draft: false
---

Due to the [coronavirus
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019-20_coronavirus_pandemic), I've been
locking myself down until I think it's safe to go out again. To alleviate fear
and stress, my writer's group has put together a daily "morning pages"
get-together on Zoom in order to touch base before starting the day. Here's some
of my brief thoughts.

__________

Ahhhhhhhhhhh his tail curls up when you pet him!!

<!-- https://stackoverflow.com/a/26276254 -->
<video style="width: 100%; width: -moz-available; width: -webkit-fill-available; width: fill-available; max-width: 100%;" controls>
    <source src="/video/posts/2020/06/27/afternoon_pages.mp4" type="video/mp4">
    Your browser does not support HTML5 video.
</video>
<br/>
<br/>

So many adorable photos and videos, so hard to choose!

__________

I don't think I've really written this week, or done anything else besides
working on a greenfield project for a client. The client's been excellent, I
have complete autonomy for this phase of development and generally pleased with
my progress. Most of my problems are on my end and have to deal with me. Let me
see whether I can enumerate them.

I have a strong tendency to work too hard. Now that I'm at my parent's place,
there's really no restrictions on how hard I can work. So usually it's between
9:00AM to 1:30 to 2:00AM in the morning, with very short lunch/dinner/bathroom
breaks. Definitely not healthy. In recent days, I've had to take an afternoon
nap in order to recharge, because I'm so dazed from working so hard that I can't
really walk straight, let alone think straight. My rule of thumb is as long as I
can produce output worth the time, it's worth keeping at it. Otherwise, break or
no break, the output is the same, so might as well take the break.

I take my work too seriously. I'm not sure how much I'm allowed to say about the
project, but I built out a feature I thought would be useful for the client
yesterday that took me most of the day, and I think the reception to that
feature was lukewarm perhaps because the client valued that time-to-ship. I
really wanted that feature for myself, and I don't think it's a waste of time
(thought it'll take a lot more effort to make it production-ready), but I might
have been much better off had I asked the client what exactly they wanted.
Gambling on using time to "wow" a client doesn't always turn out the way you
expect, especially if they're coming from different backgrounds and have
different priorities.

I badly underestimated my own readiness at creating a SaaS product from the
ground up. Things like frontends, which like many end-user clients I generally
dismiss as things to be built cheaply and to throw away, still take some time in
order to get up and running. I tried deploying a server publicly and it
instantly crashed, because I wired the server to my personal website's DNS
namespace and because it's heavily indexed, a whole bunch of requests from
random crawlers came in and crashed the server. I understood that I didn't have
too much in terms of security, but I didn't realize that without basic security
measures, the server would become unusable.

__________

Mostly though, I am grateful, albeit tired. I'm pretty happy with the money from
the client, and I think I trust them to pay them on time (unlike some other
clients I've worked for that have not). I'm pretty happy that the contract is
non-exclusive (to the best of my memory), which means I'll be able to take my
existing learnings and bake it into my infrastructure. This means I can help
other potential customers, and have work for other customers (if using the same
agreement) to help my existing client. It means I get to keep what I earn. If I
do choose to invest in this space, the original estimate I made for the customer
should be perfectly fine in getting product shipped out the door, and either I
wouldn't need to work so hard or I can devote time/energy to gaining new
customers, or working on my own personal software projects that I can hope to
monetize.

Given the way the world is right now, and what it might look like in 10-15
years, I really value the optionality that comes from contracting. If I did get
another job, I'll probably be doing the same stuff over and over again, reduced
to a line worker, because companies like uniformity. This would make me far more
vulnerable to being laid off or have salaries and benefits cut without being
able to do anything about it. If I were to "boomerang" around different
companies in order to look for a substantial pay increase (because that's the
only way to level up in the software world), then I'd have to leave behind all
my coworkers and progress and start fresh over again, which is a tremendous
waste of time and energy. You can't invest in things to stay the same if you
don't control the events behind them.

Most of all, I worry about my physical safety. If a manager didn't like you, or
didn't care about you, they could easily off you by ordering you into the office
during a pandemic, then fire you immediately after you get sick so that you
don't waste the company's health insurance (not explicitly, but "at-will"
employment means you can be fired for any reason, so just give another one not
protected my the law). That's not including illegal things companies can do to
you as an employee, which from my current point of view looks more like a
suggestion or a money+time price to pay rather than an actual safeguard.

So I'm glad the truth is finally coming into view and that I'm possibly
positioned to leverage it. There is no safety in resting on my laurels, there
never was any safety. If I stick with contracting, I can re-negotiate agreements
that aren't to my liking. Since contracts naturally run out, I'd have to
practice and exercise that muscle often, which should mean I get better at
negotiating every time. It's also more socially acceptable to negotiate a new
contract than to re-negotiate an old one. If I build everything I keep, I'm
accumulating my own knowledge base and intellectual property, as opposed to
working for a company that will keep the work I've done for itself after they
fire me. It's a lot of upfront work, but in exchange I should have a lot more
independence and freedom and much less risk exposure to Black Swan (and honestly
some not-so-black swan events), which ultimately is what I want out of my
career.

We'll see what happens, but I don't think the status quo I've accepted in the
past is acceptable now. I don't think I'd rather starve to death than go through
the last three years again. But I know I'm much happier eating gruel for
breakfast, lunch, and dinner if I got to keep my freedom. Because I've done it.
