---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Personal
title: "What does winning look like?"
date: "2020-06-27T16:09:14-04:00"
draft: false
---

The world as we know it has dramatically changed in just the past six to eight
months. Let's take stock of factual events. In January, we had a World War III
scare in the beginning of the year, where [Iran launched ballistic missiles at a
U.S. base](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Martyr_Soleimani). This
doesn't happen too often. This was part of the [larger friction in the Persian
Gulf](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019%E2%80%932020_Persian_Gulf_crisis). Oh
yeah, [the President got
impeached](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impeachment_trial_of_Donald_Trump), I
forgot about that. We also had an [unusually intense wildfire season in
Australia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019%E2%80%9320_Australian_bushfire_season):

![wildfires](/img/posts/2020/06/27/winning_4.jpg)

There's the [coronavirus
outbreak](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coronavirus_disease_2019) that started
in March, still going strong. There's the [protests over police
killings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Floyd_protests) that are still
going on, and the U.S. government [stockpiled live rounds in D.C. to be used in
case of
emergency](https://www.businessinsider.com.au/government-stored-rifles-pistols-washington-dc-george-floyd-protests-2020-6)
a la Tiananmen Square. So that's nice.

![more wildfires](/img/posts/2020/06/27/winning_5.jpeg)

![troops in dc](/img/posts/2020/06/27/winning_2.jpg)

![brazil mass graves](/img/posts/2020/06/27/winning.jpg)

![change we can believe in](/img/posts/2020/06/27/winning_3.png)

__________

This year isn't over, and I'm not saying things will always be bad, but I do
think it's important to consider the future given some hard truths. I don't
think it's appropriate to add my personal projections to the suite of things
that may happen, but the truth is unless we plan our lives to grow stronger
around uncertainty, we will most likely have significant risk exposure in the
coming years to Black Swan events of a more frequent and intense nature.

How do you plan your lives around that? How do you live your life with
confidence? I struggle with this question, even as my life passes me by.

__________

What I've come to realize is my happiness derives from my relationship to the
truth. For the longest time, I thought that the truth was my friend. But friends
care about your feelings. The truth does not. So now I don't think the truth is
my friend, but at times it does work for me. So if I'm going to be happy, I need
to make the truth work for me, instead of being at its mercy. When your truth
lines up with your mindset, and your values, happiness can shine from within.

![happy](/img/posts/2020/06/27/winning_6.jpeg)

So now we boiled down our dilemna from "how do we remain permanently unaffected
by everything going around us" (which is impossible) to "how can we make the
truth work for us". There's a number of things I'm doing:

- **Practicing a strong bias for action:** If you can build and ship things
  faster than the world can destroy them, you possess an inherent logistical
  advantage. If you can hunt and forage and farm faster than people can eat, you
  don't need to worry about food security. If you can build and crew tanks
  faster than the enemy can blow them up, you don't need to worry about winning
  the war. If you can build and ship software faster than people can need it,
  you don't need to worry about pivoting to serve customers. Boiling it down on
  this axis makes a lot of insurmountable problems look like the same mammal.

- **Retrieving information about the state of the world:** Having quality
  information streams may not result in smart choices, but without quality
  information smart choices are impossible to make. I find searching and if
  necessary paying for information and insights to be well worth the effort. For
  tech, that's many first-principles sources like mailing lists or high-quality
  technical documentation / articles. Otherwise, I store knowledge and
  information in books or online repositories.

- **Set a North Star:** There's no point in existing if it isn't for a higher
  purpose. My North Star, the goal in my work, is people: myself, family,
  friends, and the family I hope to have in the future. As long as I have that
  to work towards, the challenges in my life seem much easier to overcome.

The only easy day was yesterday, but that doesn't mean today can't be enjoyable.
