
import { ArticleLayout } from "@libs/blog/components/article-layout";

export const article = {
    author: "Ying Wang",
    date: "2020-01-01",
    title: "New Year's Resolutions",
    description: "New Year's Resolutions",
    categories: ['Personal'],
};

export const metadata = {
    title: article.title,
    description: article.description,
};

export default (props) => (
    <ArticleLayout article={article} theme="solarized" {...props} />
);


Welcome to the roaring twenties! :tada: It honestly looks very much like the
1920s. The more things change, the more they stay the same.

I think this decade will play a large role towards what my future holds, both
good and bad. So let's do this.

The "soft" (not measurable) resolutions:

**Learn to love myself**: I'm not sure if this comes as a surprise to anybody,
but I hate who I am and what I've become. I have a very hard time looking at
myself in the mirror and staring into that guy's eyes. Ultimately though, the
truth is that guy is me, and I'm kind of stuck with him. So I have to find a way
to, well, not hate myself. It's hard because regret forms many parts of why I
don't care about me, and you can't really change the past. It's important to fix
because without internalizing certain, positive, and self-evident truths, things
just don't seem to matter and I become a suffering potato of a person. I hate
even admitting this, but it's become too great of an issue to ignore and I need
to face it, and if I don't, I potato around for longer and that helps nobody I
care about.

**Make others happy**: I've had a subtractive mindset for a long time, one that
assumes many parts of life are a zero-sum game, and it's not very rewarding. In
fact by definition it can't be rewarding because the reward is not losing
something you already have, which feels very different from gaining something. I
think it's more dangerous to assume you have nothing to gain than nothing to
lose. The hard part for me isn't understanding this at a surface level, but
regulating and compartmentalizing my emotions. I think "good" is kind of
subjective, and I think a better heuristic for that intention is "happy". If
I can make other people hapy, I'm generally going right by them, because
happiness is so unquantifiable anyways.

**Find joy in the ugliness of life**: So a few years in the workforce and I've
found life's kind of messed up in general. I don't think I've talked to a single
friend or acquaintance (especially in software engineering) who says they like
all aspects of their job, even all the significant aspects. So I need to either
reframe my concerns, do an _amor fati_ thing and be grateful for everything, or
I need to be in a different position where the truths I believe are relevant.
I'm trying to aim for the latter, because I think it's easier for me. This will
really help towards building an
[antifragile](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antifragility) mindset.

<br/>

The "hard" (measurable) resolutions:

**Build the software products along my personal critical path towards personal
improvement**: Right now that consists of a **habit tracker** in order to track
my personal habits, and a **tele-rolodex** in order to help me keep in touch
with my friends and my professional network. I know I don't have the man hours
in order to build each of these things from scratch (especially if there are
more things that I need to build), so I want to abstract this away into a
platform that does one thing well: data-driven event generation. Then I can
build my own apps on top of this.

I already uploaded the "Coming Soon" page [here](https://tinydevcrm.com/), and
added an intro discussion on Lobste.rs, which you can find
[here](https://lobste.rs/s/c5z6tr/i_m_building_tiny_crm_for_software). I think I
can get an MVP of the platform out, then 0.x releases of the platform, then 0.x
releases of each of the apps I detailed above, in the time I think I have. It'll
take a lot of work, and it definitely won't be as polished as the apps I'm using
now, but I think it'll go a long way towards establishing my own long-term
independence from crummy software that I didn't write myself. The old "if you're
so smart, then why don't you do it" adage most people don't answer? I'm
answering it, just like the Comcast sales rep who said ["what are you gonna do,
disable your home Internet?"](/posts/2019/05/21/surviving_without_internet).
That's how pissed off I am about this.

**Find a job that I like**: I have to start working again for money at some
point, and I'm not looking forward to it. I'm not looking forward to it because
I'm afraid there are no worthwhile jobs out there, jobs that I can be happy at
and where I can learn stuff. I went into software on the premise I wouldn't have
to trade my soul for money, and while that's mostly true (investment banking is
much worse), I've kind of been doing it one way or another. The nice thing about
software is that there should be a job out there that's the right fit for me. It
just might be really hard to get. If it's a matter of technical knowledge,
hopefully I can learn enough about what I want to continue learning to get my
foot in the door. If it's something else (which it very much could be), then I
need to look harder. Freelancing or consulting? Maybe starting a company if the
projects I'm working on miraculously take off? Working at a big company, or
trying again at a smaller place? Who knows. It's something I have to figure out.

**Get my first kiss**: This is hard and scary for me. So I'm committing to it
publicly. Never gotten one, and I think it should be an interesting experience.
I know I can go on a date and not have it be a total disaster. Now that I have a
bit more confidence, I should probably start finding the right person, and see
what kinds of problems and failures happen with a deeper level of commitment
(I'm a really big believer in antifragility, and getting more and different
kinds of problems is the only way to become more antifragile).

---

Yeah, I think that sums it up. I don't want to over-extend myself, and I think
accomplishing _every single one of these and gaining more coverage_ is more
important than having a laundry list of goals I may or may not meet.

We'll see how it goes. :wine_glass:
