---
author: ["yingwang"]
categories:
  - Books
title: 'Book Review: "Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly", by Anthony Bourdain'
date: "2019-12-10T00:41:45-05:00"
draft: false
---

> **"Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Willing is not enough; we must do."**
>
> Johann Wolfgang von Goethe

It's downright scary how many parallels there are between completely different
lines of work. The way Bourdain describes opening a restaurant in the chapter
about owner's syndrome is eerily similar to starting a tech company for the
wrong reasons. The focus on having high-quality tools in the kitchen, how line
cooks differ so much from your ordinary home cook (in _speed_, _uniformity_, and
frankly _ability to eat shit_), what a good manager looks like (e.g. Bigfoot or
Andy Menschel, whom Bourdain still remembers him fondly), and what enlightenment
in the workplace may look like (Scott Bryan and simple but flavorful and fresh
takes on ordinary food, making him a chef among chefs). All of this reminds me
of software engineering :expressionless:

I've really enjoyed reading through "Kitchen Confidential". It's quite an
inspiring read, the life story of how a middle-class kid grew out of a drug
habit and sleazing around to become one of the top chefs in New York City.
Bourdain also offers wary eaters some tips and tricks on identifying food (Check
their bathrooms! Eat on Tuesdays when the regulars do!) and on breaking into the
restaurant business, if you're mad enough (Learn Spanish and don't lie!) That
Bourdain mentions in the updated edition I have the copious number of free meals
other chefs have specially prepared and comped for him goes to show how much it
resonates with them as well.

Today, the trends Bourdain mentioned about celebrity chefs and 24/7 coverage are
clearly evident; Bourdain himself went on to do a number of popular TV shows
around eating across the world. Maybe it does help the rest of us understand
what "real" cooking is like when we see Gordon Ramsay yell at people in "Hell's
Kitchen". Maybe it takes us further away. I'm fine not finding out.

---

(Beth Aretsky, the "Grill Bitch" and Bourdain's longtime associate, offers
T-shirts for sale, in part to benefit suicide prevention charities. Here's [her
website](https://grillbitch.org/).)
